Lionel Andres Leo Messi Cuccittini Spanish pronunciation: ljonel anes mesi  listen born 24 June 1987 is an Argentine professional footballer who plays as a forward for Spanish club FC Barcelona and the Argentina national team. Often considered the best player in the world and regarded by many as the greatest of all time, Messi is the only player in history to win five FIFA Ballon dOr awards, four of which he won consecutively, and a recordtying four European Golden Shoes. He has won 29 trophies with Barcelona, including eight La Liga titles, four UEFA Champions League titles, and five Copas del Rey. Both a prolific goalscorer and a creative playmaker, Messi holds the records for most official goals scored in La Liga 361, a La Liga season 5, a club football season in Europe 73, a calendar year 91, as well as those for most assists made in La Liga 14 and the Copa America 11. He has scored over 6 senior career goals for club and country. Born and raised in central Argentina, Messi was diagnosed with a growth hormone deficiency as a child. At age 13, he relocated to Spain to join Barcelona, who agreed to pay for his medical treatment. After a fast progression through Barcelonas youth academy, Messi made his competitive debut aged 17 in October 24. Despite being injuryprone during his early career, he established himself as an integral player for the club within the next three years, finishing 27 as a finalist for both the Ballon dOr and FIFA World Player of the Year award, a feat he repeated the following year. His first uninterrupted campaign came in the 289 season, during which he helped Barcelona achieve the first treble in Spanish football. At 22 years old, Messi won the Ballon dOr and FIFA World Player of the Year award by record voting margins. Three successful seasons followed, with Messi winning three consecutive FIFA Ballons dOr, including an unprecedented fourth. His personal best campaign statistically to date was the 21112 season, in which he set the La Liga and European records for most goals scored in a single season, while establishing himself as Barcelonas alltime top scorer in official competitions in March 212. He again struggled with injury during the following two seasons, twice finishing second for the Ballon dOr behind Cristiano Ronaldo, his perceived career rival. Messi regained his best form during the 21415 campaign, breaking the alltime goalscoring records in both La Liga and the Champions League in November 214, and led Barcelona to a historic second treble. An Argentine international, Messi is his countrys alltime leading goalscorer. At youth level, he won the 25 FIFA World Youth Championship, finishing the tournament with both the Golden Ball and Golden Shoe, and an Olympic gold medal at the 28 Summer Olympics. His style of play as a diminutive, leftfooted dribbler drew comparisons with compatriot Diego Maradona, who declared the teenager his successor. After making his senior debut in August 25, Messi became the youngest Argentine to play and score in a FIFA World Cup during the 26 edition, and reached the final of the 27 Copa America, where he was named young player of the tournament. As the squads captain from August 211, he led Argentina to three consecutive finals: the 214 World Cup, for which he won the Golden Ball, and the 215 and 216 Copas America. After announcing his international retirement in 216, he reversed his decision and led his country to qualification for the 218 World Cup. . .  Early life . Lionel Andres Messi was born on 24 June 1987 in Rosario, the third of four children of Jorge Messi, a steel factory manager, and his wife Celia Cuccittini, who worked in a magnet manufacturing workshop. On his fathers side, he is of Italian and Spanish descent, the greatgrandson of immigrants from Marche and Catalonia, and on his mothers side, he has primarily Italian ancestry. Growing up in a tightknit, footballloving family, Leo developed a passion for the sport from an early age, playing constantly with his older brothers, Rodrigo and Matias, and his cousins, Maximiliano and Emanuel Biancucchi, both of whom became professional footballers. At the age of four he joined local club Grandoli, where he was coached by his father, though his earliest influence as a player came from his maternal grandmother, Celia, who accompanied him to training and matches. He was greatly affected by her death, shortly before his eleventh birthday since then, as a devout Catholic, he has celebrated his goals by looking up and pointing to the sky in tribute of his grandmother. . A lifelong supporter of Newells Old Boys, Messi joined the Rosario club when he was six years old. During the six years he played for Newells, he scored almost 5 goals as a member of The Machine of 87, the nearunbeatable youth side named for the year of their birth, and regularly entertained crowds by performing ball tricks during halftime of the first teams home games. However, his future as a professional player was threatened when, at age 1, he was diagnosed with a growth hormone deficiency. As his fathers health insurance covered only two years of growth hormone treatment, which cost at least 1, per month, Newells agreed to contribute, but later reneged on their promise. He was scouted by Buenos Aires club River Plate, whose playmaker, Pablo Aimar, he idolised, but they were also unable to pay for his treatment due to the countrys economic collapse. . As the Messi family had relatives in Catalonia, they sought to arrange a trial with Barcelona in September 2. First team director Charly Rexach immediately wanted to sign him, but the board of directors hesitated at the time it was highly unusual for European clubs to sign foreign players of such a young age. On 14 December, an ultimatum was issued for Barcelona to prove their commitment, and Rexach, with no other paper at hand, offered a contract on a paper napkin. In February 21, the family relocated to Barcelona, where they moved into an apartment near the clubs stadium, Camp Nou. During his first year in Spain, Messi rarely played with the Infantiles due to a transfer conflict with Newells as a foreigner, he could only be fielded in friendlies and the Catalan league. Without football, he struggled to integrate into the team already reserved by nature, he was so quiet that his teammates initially believed he was mute. At home, he suffered from homesickness after his mother moved back to Rosario with his brothers and little sister, Maria Sol, while he stayed in Barcelona with his father. After a year at Barcelonas youth academy, La Masia, Messi was finally enrolled in the Royal Spanish Football Federation RFEF in February 22. Now playing in all competitions, he befriended his teammates, among whom were Cesc Fabregas and Gerard Pique. After completing his growth hormone treatment aged 14, Messi became an integral part of the Baby Dream Team, Barcelonas greatestever youth side. During his first full season 223, he was top scorer with 36 goals in 3 games for the Cadetes A, who won an unprecedented treble of the league and both the Spanish and Catalan cups. The Copa Catalunya final, a 41 victory over Espanyol, became known in club lore as the partido de la mascara, the final of the mask. A week after suffering a broken cheekbone during a league match, Messi was allowed to start the game on the condition that he wear a plastic protector soon hindered by the mask, he took it off and scored two goals in 1 minutes before his substitution. At the close of the season, he received an offer to join Arsenal, his first from a foreign club, but while Fabregas and Pique soon left for England, he chose to remain in Barcelona. . .  Club career . . .  Barcelona . . .  235: Rise to the first team . . During the 234 season, his fourth with Barcelona, Messi rapidly progressed through the clubs ranks, debuting for a record five teams in a single campaign. After being named player of the tournament in four international preseason competitions with the Juveniles B, he played only one official match with the team before being promoted to the Juveniles A, where he scored 18 goals in 11 league games. Messi was then one of several youth players called up to strengthen a depleted first team during the international break. French Winger Ludovic Giuly explained how a teenage Leo caught the eye in a training session with Frank Rijkaards first team: He destroyed us all. They were kicking him all over the place to avoid being ridiculed by this kid, he just got up and kept on playing. He would dribble past four players and score a goal. Even the teams starting centrebacks were nervous. He was an alien. At 16 years, four months, and 23 days old, he made his first team debut when he came on in the 75th minute during a friendly against Jose Mourinhos Porto on 16 November 23. His performance, creating two chances and a shot on goal, impressed the technical staff, and he subsequently began training daily with the clubs reserve side, Barcelona B, as well as weekly with the first team. After his first training session with the senior squad, Barcas new star player, Ronaldinho, told his teammates that he believed the 16yearold would become an even better player than himself. Ronaldinho soon befriended Messi, whom he called little brother, which greatly eased his transition into the first team. . To gain further match experience, Messi joined Barcelona C in addition to the Juveniles A, playing his first game for the third team on 29 November. He helped save them from the relegation zone of the Tercera Division, scoring five goals in ten games, including a hattrick in eight minutes during a Copa del Rey match while manmarked by Sevillas Sergio Ramos. His progress was reflected in his first professional contract, signed on 4 February 24, which lasted until 212 and contained an initial buyout clause of 3 million. A month later, on 6 March, he made his debut for Barcelona B in the Segunda Division B, and his buyout clause automatically increased to 8 million. He played five games with the B team that season but did not score. Physically he was weaker than his opponents, who were often much older and taller, and in training he worked on increasing his muscle mass and overall strength in order to be able to shake off defenders. Towards the end of the season, he returned to both youth teams, helping the Juveniles B win the league. He finished the campaign having scored for four of his five teams with a total of 36 goals in all official competitions. During the 245 season, Messi was a guaranteed starter for the B team, playing 17 games throughout the campaign and scoring on six occasions. Since his debut the previous November, he had not been called up to the first team again, but in October 24, the senior players asked manager Frank Rijkaard to promote him. Since Ronaldinho already played on the left wing, Rijkaard moved Messi from his usual position onto the right flank though initially against the players wishes, allowing him to cut into the centre of the pitch and shoot with his dominant left foot. Messi made his league debut during the next match on 16 October, against Espanyol, coming on in the 82nd minute. At 17 years, three months, and 22 days old, he was at the time the youngest player to represent Barcelona in an official competition. As a substitute player, he played only 77 minutes in nine matches for the first team that season, including his debut in the UEFA Champions League against Shakhtar Donetsk. He scored his first senior goal on 1 May 25, against Albacete, from an assist by Ronaldinho, becoming  at that time  the youngestever scorer for the club. Barcelona, in their second season under Rijkaard, won the league for the first time in six years. . .  258: Making the starting eleven . . On 24 June 25, his 18th birthday, Messi signed his first contract as a senior team player. It made him a Barcelona player until 21, two years less than his previous contract, but his buyout clause increased to 15 million. His breakthrough came two months later, on 24 August, during the Joan Gamper Trophy, Barcelonas preseason competition. A starter for the first time, he gave a wellreceived performance against Fabio Capellos Juventus, receiving an ovation from the Camp Nou. While Capello requested to loan Messi, a bid to buy him came from Inter Milan, who were willing to pay his 15 million buyout clause and triple his wages. According to thenpresident Joan Laporta, it was the only time the club faced a real risk of losing Messi, but he ultimately decided to stay. On 16 September, his contract was updated for the second time in three months and extended to 214. . Due to issues regarding his legal status in the Royal Spanish Football Federation, Messi missed the start of La Liga, but on 26 September, he acquired Spanish citizenship and became eligible to play. Wearing the number 19 shirt, he gradually established himself as the firstchoice right winger, forming an attacking trio with Ronaldinho and striker Samuel Etoo. He was in the starting lineup in major matches like his first Clasico against rivals Real Madrid on 19 November, as well as Barcelonas away victory over Chelsea in the last 16 round of the Champions League, where he played his best match to that point. After he had scored 8 goals in 25 games, including his first in the Champions League, his season ended prematurely during the return leg against Chelsea on 7 March 26, when he suffered a torn hamstring. Messi worked to regain fitness in time for the Champions League final, but on 17 May, the day of the final, he was eventually ruled out. He was so disappointed that he did not celebrate his teams victory over Arsenal in Paris, something he later came to regret. While Barcelona began a gradual decline, the 19yearold Messi established himself as one of the best players in the world during the 267 campaign. Already an idol to the cules, the clubs supporters, he scored 17 goals in 36 games across all competitions. However, he continued to be plagued by major injuries a metatarsal fracture sustained on 12 November 26 kept him out of action for three months. He recovered in time for the last 16 round of the Champions League against Liverpool, but was effectively marked out of the game Barcelona, the reigning champions, were out of the competition. In the league, his goal contribution increased towards the end of the season 11 of his 14 goals came from the last 13 games. On 1 March 27, he scored his first hattrick in a Clasico, the first player to do so in 12 years, equalising after each goal by Real Madrid to end the match in a 33 draw in extra time. His growing importance to the club was reflected in a new contract, signed that month, which greatly increased his wages. . Already frequently compared to compatriot Diego Maradona, Messi proved their similarity when he nearly replicated Maradonas two most famous goals in the span of three weeks. During a Copa del Rey semifinal against Getafe on 18 April, he scored a goal remarkably similar to Maradonas goal in the quarterfinals of the 1986 FIFA World Cup, known as the Goal of the Century. Messi collected the ball on the right side near the halfway line, ran 6 metres 2 ft, and beat five defenders before scoring with an angled finish, just as Maradona had done. A league match against Espanyol on 9 June saw him score by launching himself at the ball and guiding it past the goalkeeper with his hand in similar fashion to Maradonas Hand of God goal in the same World Cup match. As Messi continued his individual rise, Barcelona faltered the team failed to reach the Copa del Rey final after Messi was rested during the second leg against Getafe and lost the league to Real Madrid on headtohead results. After Ronaldinho lost form, Messi became Barcas new star player at only 2 years old, receiving the nickname Messiah from the Spanish media. His efforts in 27 also earned him award recognition journalists voted him the thirdbest player of the year for the Ballon dOr, behind Kaka and runnerup Cristiano Ronaldo, while international managers and national team captains voted him second for the FIFA World Player of the Year award, again behind Kaka. Although he managed to score 16 goals during the 278 campaign, the second half of his season was again marred by injuries after he suffered a torn hamstring on 15 December. He returned to score twice in their away victory against Celtic in the last 16 round of the Champions League, becoming the competitions top scorer at that point with six goals, but reinjured himself during the return leg on 4 March 28. Rijkaard had fielded him despite warning from the medical staff, leading captain Carles Puyol to criticise the Spanish media for pressuring Messi to play every match. Barcelona finished the season without trophies, eliminated in the Champions League semifinals by the eventual champions, Manchester United, and placed third in the league. After two unsuccessful seasons, Barcelona were in need of an overhaul, leading to the departure of Rijkaard and Ronaldinho. Upon the latters departure, Messi was given the number 1 shirt. He signed a new contract in July 28 on an annual salary of 7.8 million, becoming the clubs highestpaid player. Ahead of the new season, a major concern remained his frequent muscular injuries, which had left him sidelined for a total of eight months between 26 and 28. To combat the problem, the club implemented new training, nutrition, and lifestyle regimens, and assigned him a personal physiotherapist, who would travel with him during callups for the Argentina national team. As a result, Messi remained virtually injuryfree during the next four years, allowing him to reach his full potential. Despite his injuries early in the year, his performances in 28 saw him again voted runnerup for the Ballon dOr and the FIFA World Player of the Year award, both times behind Cristiano Ronaldo. . .  2911: Sustained success . In his first uninterrupted campaign, the 289 season, he scored 38 goals in 51 games, contributing alongside Etoo and winger Thierry Henry to a total of 1 goals in all competitions, a record at the time for the club. . During his first season under Barcelonas new manager, former captain Pep Guardiola, Messi played mainly on the right wing, like he had under Rijkaard, though this time as a false winger with the freedom to cut inside and roam the centre. During the Clasico on 2 May 29, however, he played for the first time as a false nine, positioned as a centreforward but dropping deep into midfield to link up with Xavi and Andres Iniesta. He assisted with a chip his sides first goal and scored twice to end the match in an emphatic 62 victory, the teams greatestever score at Real Madrids Santiago Bernabeu Stadium. Returning to the wing, he played his first final since breaking into the first team on 13 May, scoring once and assisting a second goal as Barcelona defeated Athletic Bilbao 41 to win the Copa del Rey. With 23 league goals from Messi that season, Barcelona became La Liga champions three days later and achieved its fifth double. As the seasons Champions League top scorer with nine goals, the youngest in the tournaments history, Messi scored two goals and assisted two more to ensure a 4 quarterfinal victory over Bayern Munich. He returned as a false nine during the final on 27 May in Rome against Manchester United. Barcelona were crowned champions of Europe by winning the match 2, the second goal coming from a Messi header over goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar. Barcelona thus achieved the first treble in the history of Spanish football. This success was reflected in a new contract, signed on 18 September, which committed Messi to the club through 216 with a new buyout clause of 25 million, while his salary increased to 12 million. His teams prosperity continued into the second half of 29, as Barcelona became the first club to achieve the sextuple, winning six toptier trophies in a single year. After victories in the Supercopa de Espana and UEFA Super Cup in August, Barcelona won the FIFA Club World Cup against Estudiantes de La Plata on 19 December, with Messi scoring the winning 21 goal with his chest. At 22 years old, Messi won the Ballon dOr and the FIFA World Player of the Year award, both times by the greatest voting margin in each trophys history. . Unsatisfied with his position on the right wing, Messi resumed playing as a false nine in early 21, beginning with a Champions League last 16round match against VfB Stuttgart. After a firstleg draw, Barcelona won the second leg 4 with two goals and an assist from Messi. At that point, he effectively became the tactical focal point of Guardiolas team, and his goalscoring rate increased. Messi scored a total of 47 goals in all competitions that season, equaling Ronaldos club record from the 199697 campaign. He notably scored all of his sides four goals in the Champions League quarterfinal against Arsene Wengers Arsenal on 6 April while becoming Barcelonas alltime top scorer in the competition. Although Barcelona were eliminated in the Champions League semifinals by the eventual champions, Inter Milan, Messi finished the season as top scorer with 8 goals for the second consecutive year. As the leagues top scorer with 34 goals again tying Ronaldos record, he helped Barcelona win a second consecutive La Liga trophy with only a single defeat. . Messi secured Barcelonas first trophy of the 2111 campaign, the Supercopa de Espana, by scoring a hattrick in his sides secondleg 4 victory over Sevilla, after a firstleg defeat. Assuming a playmaking role, he was again instrumental in a Clasico on 29 November 21, the first with Jose Mourinho in charge of Real Madrid, as Barcelona defeated their rivals 5. Messi helped the team achieve 16 consecutive league victories, a record in Spanish football, concluding with another hattrick against Atletico Madrid on 5 February 211. His club performances in 21 earned him the inaugural FIFA Ballon dOr, an amalgamation of the Ballon dOr and the FIFA World Player of the Year award, though his win was met with some criticism due to his lack of success with Argentina at the 21 FIFA World Cup. Under the awards old format, he would have placed just outside the top three, owing his win to the votes from the international coaches and captains. Towards the end of the season, Barcelona played four Clasicos in the span of 18 days. A league match on 16 April ended in a draw after a penalty from Messi. After Barcelona lost the Copa del Rey final four days later, Messi scored both goals in his sides 2 win in the first leg of the Champions League semifinals, the second of which  a dribble past three players  was acclaimed as one of the best ever in the competition. Although he did not score, he was again important in the secondleg draw that sent Barcelona through to the Champions League final, where they faced Manchester United in a repeat of the final two years earlier. As the competitions top scorer for the third consecutive year, with 12 goals, Messi gave a manofthematch performance at Wembley on 28 May, scoring the matchwinning goal of Barcas 31 victory. Barcelona won a third consecutive La Liga title. In addition to his 31 goals, Messi was also the leagues top assist provider with 18. He finished the season with 53 goals and 24 assists in all competitions, becoming Barcelonas alltime singleseason top scorer and the first player in Spanish football to reach the 5goal benchmark. As Messi developed into a combination of a number 8 a creator, a 9 scorer, and a 1 assistant, he scored an unprecedented 73 goals and provided 29 assists in all club competitions during the 21112 season, producing a hattrick or more on 1 occasions. He began the campaign by helping Barcelona win both the Spanish and European Super Cups in the Supercopa de Espana, he scored three times to achieve a 54 aggregate victory over Real Madrid, overtaking Raul as the competitions alltime top scorer with eight goals. At the close of the year, on 18 December, he scored twice in the FIFA Club World Cup final, a 4 victory over Santos, earning the Golden Ball as the best player of the tournament, as he had done two years previously. For his efforts in 211, he again received the FIFA Ballon dOr, becoming only the fourth player in history to win the Ballon dOr three times, after Johan Cruyff, Michel Platini, and Marco van Basten. Additionally, he won the inaugural UEFA Best Player in Europe Award, a revival of the oldstyle Ballon dOr. By then, Messi was already widely considered one of the best footballers in history, alongside players like Diego Maradona and Pele. . .  212: A recordbreaking year . . As Messi maintained his goalscoring form into the second half of the season, the year 212 saw him break several longstanding records. On 7 March, two weeks after scoring four goals in a league fixture against Valencia, he scored five times in a Champions League last 16round match against Bayer Leverkusen, an unprecedented achievement in the history of the competition. In addition to being the joint top assist provider with five assists, this feat made him top scorer with 14 goals, tying Jose Altafinis record from the 196263 season, as well as becoming only the second player after Gerd Muller to be top scorer in four campaigns. Two weeks later, on 2 March, Messi became the top goalscorer in Barcelonas history at 24 years old, overtaking the 57year record of Cesar Rodriguezs 232 goals with a hattrick against Granada. . Despite Messis individual form, Barcelonas fouryear cycle of success under Guardiola  one of the greatest eras in the clubs history  drew to an end. Although Barcelona won the Copa del Rey against Athletic Bilbao on 25 May, its 14th title of that period, the team had lost the league to Real Madrid and was eliminated in the Champions League semifinals by the eventual champions, Chelsea, with Messi sending a crucial secondleg penalty kick against the crossbar. In Barcas last home league match on 5 May, against Espanyol, Messi scored all four goals before approaching the bench to embrace Guardiola, who had announced his resignation as manager. He finished the season as league top scorer in Spain and Europe for a second time, with 5 goals, an alltime La Liga record, while his 73 goals in all competitions surpassed Gerd Mullers 67 goals in the 197273 Bundesliga season, making him the singleseason top scorer in the history of European club football. Under manager Tito Vilanova, who had first coached him aged 14 at La Masia, Messi helped the club achieve its bestever start to a La Liga season during the second half of 212, amassing 55 points by the competitions midway point, a record in Spanish football. A double scored on 9 December against Real Betis saw Messi break two longstanding records: he surpassed Cesar Rodriguezs record of 19 league goals, becoming Barcelonas alltime top scorer in La Liga, and Gerd Mullers record of most goals scored in a calendar year, overtaking his 85 goals scored in 1972 for Bayern Munich and Germany. Messi sent Muller a number 1 Barcelona shirt, signed with respect and admiration, after breaking his 4year record. At the close of the year, Messi had scored a record 91 goals in all competitions for Barcelona and Argentina. Although FIFA did not acknowledge the achievement, citing verifiability issues, he received the Guinness World Records title for most goals scored in a calendar year. As the oddson favourite, Messi again won the FIFA Ballon dOr, becoming the only player in history to win the Ballon dOr four times. . .  21314: Messidependencia . Barcelona had virtually secured their La Liga title by the start of 213, eventually equalling Real Madrids 1point record of the previous season. However, their performances deteriorated in the second half of the 21213 campaign, concurrently with Vilanovas absence due to ill health. After losing successive Clasicos, including the Copa del Rey semifinals, they were nearly eliminated in the first knockout round of the Champions League by Milan, but a revival of form in the second leg led to a 4 comeback, with two goals and an assist from Messi. Now in his ninth senior season with Barcelona, Messi signed a new contract on 7 February, committing himself to the club through 218, while his fixed wage rose to 13 million. He wore the captains armband for the first time a month later, on 17 March, in a league match against Rayo Vallecano by then, he had become the teams tactical focal point to a degree that was arguably rivalled only by former Barcelona players Josep Samitier, Laszlo Kubala and Johan Cruyff. Since his evolution into a false nine three years earlier, his input into the teams attack had increased exponentially from 24 in their treblewinning campaign, his goal contribution rose to more than 4 that season. . After four largely injuryfree seasons, the muscular injuries that had previously plagued Messi reoccurred. After he suffered a hamstring strain on 2 April, during the first quarterfinal against Paris SaintGermain, his appearances became sporadic. In the second leg against PSG, with an underperforming Barcelona down a goal, Messi came off the bench in the second half and within nine minutes helped create their gametying goal, which allowed them to progress to the semifinals. Still unfit, he proved ineffective during the first leg against Bayern Munich and was unable to play at all during the second, as Barcelona were defeated 7 on aggregate by the eventual champions. These matches gave credence to the notion of Messidependencia, Barcelonas perceived tactical and psychological dependence on their star player. Messi continued to struggle with injury throughout 213, eventually parting ways with his longtime personal physiotherapist. Further damage to his hamstring sustained on 12 May ended his goalscoring streak of 21 consecutive league games, a worldwide record he had netted 33 goals during his run, including a fourgoal display against Osasuna, while becoming the first player to score consecutively against all 19 opposition teams in La Liga. With 6 goals in all competitions, including 46 goals in La Liga, he finished the campaign as league top scorer in Spain and Europe for the second consecutive year, becoming the first player in history to win the European Golden Shoe three times. Following an irregular start to the new season under manager Gerardo Martino, formerly of his boyhood club Newells Old Boys, Messi suffered his fifth injury of 213 when he tore his hamstring on 1 November, leaving him sidelined for two months. Despite his injuries, he was voted runnerup for the FIFA Ballon dOr, relinquishing the award after a fouryear monopoly to Cristiano Ronaldo. . During the second half of the 21314 season, doubts persisted over Messis form, leading to a perception among the cules that he was reserving himself for the 214 FIFA World Cup. Statistically, his contribution of goals, shots, and passes had dropped significantly compared to previous seasons. He still managed to break two longstanding records in a span of seven days: a hattrick on 16 March against Osasuna saw him overtake Paulino Alcantaras 369 goals to become Barcelonas top goalscorer in all competitions including friendlies, while another hattrick against Real Madrid on 23 March made him the alltime top scorer in El Clasico, ahead of the 18 goals scored by former Real Madrid player Alfredo Di Stefano. Messi finished the campaign with his worst output in five seasons, though he still managed to score 41 goals in all competitions. For the first time in five years, Barcelona ended the season without a major trophy they were defeated in the Copa del Rey final by Real Madrid and lost the league in the last game to Atletico Madrid, causing Messi to be booed by sections of fans at the Camp Nou. After prolonged speculation over his future with the club, Messi signed a new contract on 19 May 214, only a year after his last contractual update his salary increased to 2 million, or 36 million before taxes, the highest wage ever in the sport. . .  21415 season: A historic treble . . Under new manager and former captain Luis Enrique, Messi experienced a largely injuryfree start to the 21415 season, allowing him to break three more longstanding records towards the end of the year. A hattrick scored against Sevilla on 22 November made him the alltime top scorer in La Liga, as he surpassed the 59year record of 251 league goals held by Telmo Zarra. Three days later, he scored another hattrick against APOEL, overtaking Rauls 71 goals to become top scorer in the history of the Champions League. A third hattrick, scored against city rivals Espanyol on 7 December, allowed him to surpass Cesar Rodriguez as the alltime top scorer in the Derbi barceloni with 12 goals. Messi again placed second in the FIFA Ballon dOr behind Cristiano Ronaldo, largely owing to his secondplace achievement with Argentina at the World Cup. At the start of 215, Barcelona were perceived to be headed for another disappointing end to the season, with renewed speculation in the media that Messi was leaving the club. A turning point came on 11 January during a 31 victory over Atletico Madrid, the first time Barcas attacking trident of Messi, Luis Suarez and Neymar, dubbed MSN, each scored in a match, marking the beginning of a highly successful run. After five years of playing in the centre of the pitch, Messi had returned to his old position on the right wing late the previous year, by his own suggestion according to Suarez, their striker. From there, he regained his best  arguably his bestever  form, while Suarez and Neymar ended the teams attacking dependency on their star player. With 58 goals from Messi, the trio scored a total of 122 goals in all competitions that season, a record in Spanish football. . Towards the end of the campaign, Messi scored in a 1 away win over Atletico Madrid on 17 May, securing the La Liga title. Among his 43 league goals that season was a hattrick scored in 11 minutes against Rayo Vallecano on 8 March, the fastest of his senior career it was his 32nd hattrick overall for Barcelona, allowing him to overtake Telmo Zarra as the player with the most hattricks ever in Spanish football. Additionally, as the seasons top assist provider with 18 assists, he surpassed Luis Figo as the player with the most assists in La Liga he made his record 16th assist in a fixture against Levante on 15 February, in which he also scored a hattrick. Messi then scored twice as Barcelona defeated Athletic Bilbao 31 in the Copa del Rey final on 3 May, achieving the sixth double in their history. His opening goal was hailed as one of the greatest in his career he collected the ball near the halfway line and beat four opposing players, before feinting the goalkeeper to score in a tight space by the near post. The goal was later named one of the three final nominees for the 215 FIFA Puskas Award. In the Champions League, Messi scored twice and assisted on another in their 3 semifinal victory over Bayern Munich, now under the stewardship of Guardiola. His second goal, which came only three minutes after his first, saw him chip the ball over goalkeeper Manuel Neuer after his dribble past Jerome Boateng had made the defender drop to the ground it went viral, becoming the years most tweeted about sporting moment, and was named the best goal of the season by UEFA. Despite a secondleg loss, Barcelona progressed to the final on 6 June in Berlin, where they defeated Juventus 31 to win their second treble, becoming the first team in history to do so. Although Messi did not score, he participated in each of his sides goals, particularly the second as he forced a parried save from goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon from which Suarez scored the matchwinning goal on the rebound. In addition to being the top assist provider with six assists, Messi finished the competition as the joint top scorer with ten goals, which earned him the distinction of being the first player ever to achieve the top scoring mark in five Champions League seasons. For his efforts during the season, he received the UEFA Best Player in Europe award for a second time. . .  21516 season: Domestic success . . Messi opened the 21516 season by scoring twice from free kicks in Barcelonas 54 victory after extra time over Sevilla in the UEFA Super Cup. A subsequent 51 aggregate defeat against Athletic Bilbao in the Supercopa de Espana ended their expressed hopes of a second sextuple, with Messi scoring his sides only goal. On 16 September, he became the youngest player to make 1 appearances in the UEFA Champions League in a 11 away draw to Roma. On 26 September, Messi sustained an injury in Barcelonas match against Las Palmas tests later confirmed that he suffered a tear in the medial collateral ligament of his left knee, ruling him out for six to eight weeks. He finally returned to the pitch on 21 November, making a substitute appearance in Barcelonas 4 away win over rivals Real Madrid in El Clasico. Messi capped off the year by winning the 215 FIFA Club World Cup Final on 2 December, collecting his fifth club trophy of 215 as Barcelona went on to defeat River Plate 3 in Yokohama. Messi also won the tournaments Silver Ball, despite missing the semifinal. On 3 December, Messi scored on his 5th appearance for Barcelona, in a 4 home win over Real Betis. On 6 January 216, recording Barcelonas first goal of the new year, Messi scored two goals and assisted the other two in a 41 derby win over Espanyol at the Camp Nou, in the first leg of the round of 16 of the 21516 Copa del Rey. Five days later, Messi won the FIFA Ballon dOr for a record fifth time in his career. On 3 February, he scored a hattrick in Barcelonas 7 win against Valenciain the first leg of the Copa del Rey semifinal at the Camp Nou, also scoring his 5th career goal in the process, including youth competitions. With teammate Luis Suarez scoring the other four goals in the same match, this was the first time that two players had scored at least three goals each at Camp Nou, and the first time since Luis Suarez Miramontes and Justo Tejada in 1956. The feat had only occurred three times before in the clubs history, all at Camp de Les Corts. The next league match at Camp Nou, a 61 win against Celta de Vigo, Messi assisted Suarez from a penalty kick. Some people saw it as a touch of genius, while others criticised it as being disrespectful to the opponent. The Celta players, however, never complained and their coach defended the penalty, stating, Barcas forwards are very respectful. The penalty routine has been compared to that of Barca icon Johan Cruyff in 1982, who was battling lung cancer, leading many fans to indicate that the penalty was a tribute to him. Cruyff himself was very happy with the play, insisting it was legal and entertaining. On 17 February, Messi reached his 3th league goal in a 13 away win against Sporting de Gijon. A few days later, he scored both goals in Barcelonas 2 win against Arsenal at the Emirates Stadium, in the first leg of the 21516 UEFA Champions League round of 16, with the second goal being Barcelonas 1,th in official competitions. On 17 April, Messi ended a fivematch scoring drought with his 5th senior career goal for club and country in Barcelonas 21 home loss to Valencia. Messi finished the 21516 season by setting up both goals in Barcelonas 2 extra time win over Sevilla in the 216 Copa del Rey Final, at the Vicente Calderon Stadium, on 22 May 216, as the club celebrated winning the domestic double for the second consecutive season. In total, Messi scored 41 goals and provided 23 assists, as Barcelonas attacking trio managed a Spanish record of 131 goals throughout the season, breaking the record they had set the previous season. . .  21617 season: Fourth Golden Boot . . Messi opened the 21617 season by lifting the 216 Supercopa de Espana as Barcelonas captain in the absence of the injured Andres Iniesta he setup Munirs goal in a 2 away win over Sevilla in the first leg on 14 August, and subsequently scored and assisted in a 3 win in the return leg on 17 August. Three days later, he scored two goals and provided an assist to lead Barcelona to a 62 victory against Real Betis in the opening game of the 21617 La Liga season. On 13 September 216, Messi scored his first hattrick of the season in the opening game of the 21617 UEFA Champions League campaign against Celtic in a 7 victory this was also Messis sixth hattrick in the Champions League, the most by any player. A week later, Messi sustained a groin injury in a 11 draw against Atletico Madrid and was ruled out with injury for three weeks. He marked his return with a goal, scoring three minutes after coming off the bench in a 4 home win over Deportivo de La Coruna, on 16 October. Three days after this, he netted his thirtyseventh club hattrick as Barcelona defeated Manchester City 4. On 1 November, Messi scored his 54th Champions League group stage goal in Barcelonas 31 away return fixture to Manchester City, surpassing the previous record of 53 goals held by Raul. On 12 November, Messi placed second in the 216 Ballon dOr behind Cristiano Ronaldo, who claimed the award for the fourth time. He finished the year with 51 goals, making him Europes top scorer, one ahead of Zlatan Ibrahimovic. After placing second in the 216 Ballon dOr, on 9 January 217 Messi also finished in second place  behind Cristiano Ronaldo once again  in the 216 Best FIFA Mens Player Award. On 11 January, Messi scored from a freekick in Barcelonas 31 victory against Athletic Bilbao in the second leg of the round of 16 of the Copa del Rey, which enabled Barcelona to advance to the quarterfinals of the competition with his 26th goal from a freekick for Barcelona in all competitions, he equalled the clubs alltime record, which had previously been set by Ronald Koeman. In his next league match, on 14 January, Messi scored in a 5 win against Las Palmas with this goal, he equalled Rauls record for the most number of teams scored against in La Liga 35. On 4 February, Messi scored his 27th freekick for Barcelona in a 3 home win over Athletic Bilbao in the league, overtaking Koeman as the clubs alltime topscorer from freekicks. On 23 April, Messi scored twice in a 32 away win over Real Madrid. His gamewinning goal in stoppage time was his 5th for Barcelona. On 27 May, Messi scored a goal and set up another for Paco Alcacer in the 217 Copa del Rey Final, helping Barcelona to a 31 victory over Alaves, and was named Man of the Match. In total, Messi finished the 21617 season with 54 goals and 16 assists, while his 37 goals in La Liga saw him claim both the Pichichi and European Golden Boot Awards for the fourth time in his career. . .  21718 season . Messi opened the 21718 season by converting a penalty in Barcelonas 13 first leg home defeat to Real Madrid in Supercopa de Espana. Thereby, Messi also extended his El Clasico goalscoring record with the goal being his 24th official and 25th overall. On 27 August, Messi scored his first two goals of the 21718 La Liga season in a 2 away win over Alaves. Messis first goal marked his 35th in the fixture, becoming the first player ever to achieve this milestone. On 9 September, Messi scored his first hattrick of the 21718 league campaign, against Espanyol in derbi barceloni, thus helping to secure a 5 home victory for Blaugrana over local rivals. Messi netted twice against Gianluigi Buffon, on 12 September, as Barca defeated the last seasons Italian champions Juventus 3 at home in the UEFA Champions League. On 19 September, Messi found the net four times in a 61 trashing of Eibar at the Camp Nou in La Liga. Three weeks later, on 1 October, Messi surpassed his former teammate Carles Puyol to become the third highest appearance maker in the clubs history, as he helped Barca defeat Las Palmas 3 by assisting Sergio Busquets opener and later adding two himself in his 594th official game for the club the league game was played behind closed doors at the Camp Nou due to violence in Catalonia relating to an ongoing independence referendum. On 18 October, in his 122nd European club appearance, Messi scored his 97th UEFA Champions League goal, and his 1th in all UEFA club competitions, in a 31 home victory over Olympiakos he also set up Lucas Dignes goal during the same match. Messi became only the second player after Cristiano Ronaldo to reach this century milestone, but accomplished it in 21 fewer appearances than the Portuguese counterpart. On 23 October, Messi finished as the runnerup behind Cristiano Ronaldo in 217 Best FIFA Mens Player award for the second consecutive year. On 4 November, he made his 6th appearance for Barcelona in a 21 home win over Sevilla in La Liga. Following the reception of his fourth Golden Boot, Messi signed a new deal with Barcelona on 25 November, keeping him with the club through the 2221 season. His buyout clause was set at 7 million. . .  International career . . .  245: Success at youth level . As a dual ArgentineSpanish national, Messi was eligible to play for the national team of both countries. Selectors for Spains Under17 squad began pursuing him in 23 after Barcelonas director of football, Carles Rexach, alerted the Royal Spanish Football Federation to their young player. Messi declined the offer, having aspired to represent La Albiceleste since childhood. To further prevent Spain from taking him, the Argentine Football Association organised two under2 friendlies in June 24, against Paraguay and Uruguay, with the purpose of finalising his status as an Argentina player in FIFA. Five days after his 17th birthday, on 29 June, he made his debut for his country against Paraguay, scoring once and providing two assists in their 8 victory. He was subsequently included in the squad for the South American Youth Championship, held in Colombia in February 25. As he lacked the stamina of his teammates, the result of his former growth hormone deficiency, he was used as a substitute in six of the nine games, proving more effective when coming on in the second half. After being named man of the match against Venezuela, he scored the winning 21 goal in the crucial last match against Brazil, thereby securing their thirdplace qualification for the FIFA World Youth Championship. Aware of his physical limitations, Messi employed a personal trainer to increase his muscle mass, returning to the squad in improved condition in time for the World Youth Championship, hosted by the Netherlands in June 25. After he was left out of the starting lineup in their first match against the United States, a 1 defeat, the squads senior players asked manager Francisco Ferraro to let Messi start, as they considered him their best player. After helping the team defeat Egypt and Germany to progress past the group stage, Messi proved decisive in the knockout phase as he scored their equaliser against Colombia, provided a goal and an assist against title favourites Spain, and scored their opening goal against reigning champions Brazil. Ahead of the final, he was awarded the Golden Ball as the best player of the tournament. He scored two penalties in their 21 victory over Nigeria, clinching Argentinas fifth championship and finishing the tournament as top scorer with 6 goals. His performances drew comparisons with compatriot Diego Maradona, who had led Argentina to the title in 1979. . .  256: Senior and World Cup debuts . In recognition of his achievements with the under2 side, senior manager Jose Pekerman gave Messi his first callup for a friendly against Hungary on 17 August 25. Aged 18, Messi made his senior debut for Argentina when he came on in the 63rd minute, only to be sent off after two minutes for a perceived foul against Vilmos Vanczak, who had grabbed his shirt Messi had struck the defender with his arm while trying to shake him off, which the referee interpreted as an intentional elbowing, a contentious decision. Messi was reportedly found weeping in the dressing room after his sendingoff. He returned to the team on 3 September in their World Cup qualifier defeat to Paraguay, which he had declared his redebut ahead of the match. Messi started his first game in the next qualifying match against Peru, in which he was able to win a crucial penalty that secured their victory. After the match, Pekerman described him as a jewel. He subsequently made regular appearances for the team ahead of Argentinas participation in the 26 FIFA World Cup, scoring his first goal in a friendly against Croatia on 1 March 26. A hamstring injury sustained a week later jeopardised his presence in the World Cup, but he was nevertheless selected for Pekermans squad and regained fitness in time for the start of the tournament. During the World Cup in Germany, Messi witnessed their opening match victory against the Ivory Coast from the substitutes bench. In the next match, against Serbia and Montenegro, he became the youngest player to represent Argentina at a FIFA World Cup when he came on as a substitute in the 74th minute. He assisted their fourth strike within minutes and scored the final goal in their 6 victory, making him the youngest scorer in the tournament and the sixthyoungest goalscorer in the history of the World Cup. As their progression to the knockout phase was secured, several starters were rested during the last group match. Messi consequently started the game against the Netherlands, a  draw, as they won their group on goal differential. In the round of 16 match against Mexico, played on his 19th birthday, Messi came on in the 84th minute, with the score tied at 11. He appeared to score a goal, but it was contentiously ruled offside, with the team needing a late goal in extra time to proceed. He did not play in the quarterfinal against Germany, during which Argentina were eliminated 42 in a penalty shootout. Back home, Pekermans decision to leave him on the bench against Germany led to widespread criticism from those who believed Messi could have changed the outcome of the match in Argentinas favour. . .  278: Copa America final and Olympic gold . . As Messi evolved into one of the best players in the world, he secured a place in Alfio Basiles starting lineup, as part of a team considered favourites to win the 27 Copa America, held in Venezuela. He set up the gamewinning goal of their 41 victory over the United States in the opening match, before winning a penalty that led to the gametying first strike of their 42 win in the next match against Colombia. As they had secured their place in the knockout phase, Messi started the next game on the bench, coming on in the last 25 minutes with the score at  to help his team defeat Paraguay by assisting their only goal. At the quarterfinal stage, where the group winners faced Peru, he scored the second goal of a 4 victory that saw them through to the semifinal, during which he chipped the ball over Mexicos goalkeeper to ensure another 3 win. In a surprise defeat, Argentina lost the final 3 to a Brazil squad which lacked several of the nations best players. Their unexpected loss was followed by much criticism in Argentina, though Messi was mostly exempt due to his young age and secondary status to star player Juan Roman Riquelme. He was named the best young player of the tournament by CONMEBOL. Ahead of the 28 Summer Olympics, Barcelona legally barred Messi from representing Argentina at the tournament as it coincided with their Champions League qualifying matches. After interference from newly appointed Barcelona manager Pep Guardiola, who had won the tournament in 1992, Messi was permitted to join Sergio Batistas under23 squad in Beijing. During the first match, he scored the opening goal and assisted another in their 21 victory over the Ivory Coast. Following a 1 win in the next group match against Australia, ensuring their quarterfinal qualification, Messi was rested during the game against Serbia, while his side won the match to finish first in their group. Against the Netherlands, he again scored the first goal and assisted a second strike to help his team to a 21 win in extra time. After a 3 semifinal victory over Brazil, Messi assisted the only goal in the final as Argentina defeated Nigeria to claim Olympic gold medals. Along with Riquelme, Messi was singled out by FIFA as the standout player from the tournaments best team. . .  2811: Collective decline . From late 28, the national team experienced a threeyear period marked by poor performances. Under manager Diego Maradona, who had led Argentina to World Cup victory as a player, the team struggled to qualify for the 21 World Cup, securing their place in the tournament only after defeating Uruguay 1 in their last qualifying match. Maradona was criticised for his strategic decisions as he played Messi out of position, positioned too deep for him to be able to contribute to the attack to his full ability. In eight qualifying matches under Maradonas stewardship, Messi scored only one goal, netting the opening goal in the first such match, a 4 victory over Venezuela. During that game, played on 28 March 29, he wore Argentinas number 1 shirt for the first time, following the international retirement of Riquelme. Overall, Messi scored four goals in 18 appearances during the qualifying process. Ahead of the tournament, Maradona visited Messi in Barcelona to request his tactical input Messi then outlined a 4312 formation with himself playing behind the two strikers, a playmaking position known as the enganche in Argentine football, which had been his preferred position since childhood. . Despite their poor qualifying campaign, Argentina were considered title contenders at the World Cup in South Africa. At the start of the tournament, the new formation proved effective Messi managed at least four attempts on goal during their opening match but was repeatedly denied by Nigerias goalkeeper, resulting in a 1 win. During the next match, against South Korea, he excelled in his playmaking role, participating in all four goals of his sides 41 victory. As their place in the knockout phase was guaranteed, most of the starters were rested during the last group match, but Messi reportedly refused to be benched. He wore the captains armband for the first time in their 2 win against Greece as the focal point of their play, he helped create their second goal to see Argentina finish as group winners. In the round of 16, they defeated Mexico 31, with Messi assisting their first goal, a controversial strike that stood despite being offside. Argentinas unstructured defence had proved a liability throughout the World Cup and finally led to their elimination in the quarterfinal against Germany, at the same stage of the tournament and by the same opponent as four years earlier. Their 4 loss was their worst margin of defeat since 1974. FIFA subsequently identified Messi as one of the tournaments 1 best players, citing his outstanding pace and creativity and spectacular and efficient dribbling, shooting and passing. Back home, however, Messi was the subject of far harsher judgement. As the perceived best player in the world, he had been expected to lead an average team to the title, as Maradona arguably did in 1986, but he had failed to replicate his performances at Barcelona with the national team, leading to the accusation that he cared less about his country than his club. Maradona was replaced by Sergio Batista, who had orchestrated Argentinas Olympic victory. Batista publicly stated that he intended to build the team around Messi, employing him as a false nine within a 433 system, as used to much success by Barcelona. Although Messi scored a record 53 goals during the 2111 club season, he had not scored for Argentina in an official match since March 29. Despite the tactical change, his goal drought continued during the 211 Copa America, hosted by Argentina. Their first two matches, against Bolivia and Colombia, ended in draws, with Messi underperforming by his standards. Media and fans noted that he did not combine well with striker Carlos Tevez, who enjoyed far greater popularity among the Argentine public Messi was consequently booed by his own teams supporters for the first time in his career. During the crucial next match, with Tevez on the bench, he gave a wellreceived performance, assisting two goals in their 3 victory over Costa Rica. After the quarterfinal against Uruguay ended in a 11 draw following extra time, with Messi having assisted their equaliser, Argentina were eliminated 45 in the penalty shootout by the eventual champions. . .  21113: Assuming the captaincy . . After Argentinas unsuccessful performance in the Copa America, Batista was replaced by Alejandro Sabella. Upon his appointment in August 211, Sabella awarded the 24yearold Messi the captaincy of the squad, in accord with thencaptain Javier Mascherano. Reserved by nature, Messi went on to lead his squad by example as their best player, while Mascherano continued to fulfil the role of the teams onfield leader and motivator. In a further redesign of the team, Sabella dismissed Tevez and brought in players with whom Messi had won the World Youth Championship and Olympic Games. Now playing in a free role in an improving team, Messi finally ended his goal drought by scoring during their first World Cup qualifying match against Chile on 7 October, his first official goal for Argentina in twoandahalf years. Under Sabella, Messis goalscoring rate drastically increased where he had scored only 17 goals in 61 matches under his previous managers, he scored 25 times in 32 appearances during the following three years. He netted a total of 12 goals in 9 games for Argentina in 212, equalling the record held by Gabriel Batistuta, Argentinas alltime top scorer, for the most goals scored in a calendar year for their country. His first hattrick with the Albicelestes came in a friendly against Switzerland on 29 February 212, followed by two more hattricks over the next yearandahalf in friendlies against Brazil and Guatemala. Messi then helped the team secure their place in the 214 World Cup with a 52 victory over Paraguay on 1 September 213 in addition to providing an assist, he scored twice from a penalty kick, taking his international tally to 37 goals to become Argentinas secondhighest goalscorer behind only Batistuta. Overall, he had scored a total of 1 goals in 14 matches during the qualifying campaign. Concurrently with his bettered performances, his relationship with his compatriots improved, as he gradually began to be perceived more favourably in Argentina. . .  21415: World Cup and Copa America finals . Ahead of the World Cup in Brazil, doubts persisted over Messis form, as he finished an unsuccessful and injuryplagued season with Barcelona. At the start of the tournament, however, he gave strong performances, being elected man of the match in their first four matches. In his first World Cup match as captain, he led them to a 21 victory over Bosnia and Herzegovina he helped create their early opening goal and scored their second strike after a dribble past three players, his first World Cup goal since his debut in the tournament eight years earlier. During the second match against Iran, he scored an injurytime goal from 23 metres out to end the game in a 1 win, securing their qualification for the knockout phase. He scored twice in the last group match, a 32 victory over Nigeria, his second goal from a free kick, as they finished first in their group. Messi assisted a late goal in extra time to ensure a 1 win against Switzerland in the round of 16, before starting the play that led to their matchwinning 1 goal in the quarterfinal against Belgium, helping Argentina progress to the semifinal of the World Cup for the first time since 199. Following a  draw in extra time, they eliminated the Netherlands 42 in a penalty shootout to reach the final. . Billed as Messi versus Germany, the worlds best player against the best team, the final was a repeat of the 199 final featuring Diego Maradona. Within the first halfhour, Messi had started the play that led to a goal, but it was ruled offside. He missed several opportunities to open the scoring throughout the match, in particular at the start of the second half when his breakaway effort went wide of the far post. Substitute Mario Gotze finally scored in the 113th minute, followed in the last minute of extra time by a free kick that Messi sent over the net, as Germany won the match 1 to claim the World Cup. At the conclusion of the final, Messi was awarded the Golden Ball as the best player of the tournament. In addition to being the joint thirdhighest goalscorer, with four goals and an assist, he created the most chances, completed the most dribbling runs, made the most deliveries into the penalty area and produced the most throughballs in the competition. However, his selection drew criticism due to his lack of goals in the knockout round FIFA President Sepp Blatter expressed his surprise, while Maradona suggested that Messi had undeservedly been chosen for marketing purposes. Another final appearance, the third of Messis senior international career, followed in the 215 Copa America, held in Chile. Under the stewardship of former Barcelona manager Gerardo Martino, Argentina entered the tournament as title contenders due to their secondplace achievement at the World Cup. During the opening match against Paraguay, they were ahead two goals by halftime but lost their lead to end the match in a 22 draw Messi had scored from a penalty kick, netting his only goal in the tournament. Following a 1 win against defending champions Uruguay, Messi earned his 1th cap for his country in the final group match, a 1 win over Jamaica, becoming only the fifth Argentine to achieve this milestone. In his 1 appearances, he had scored a total of 46 goals for Argentina, 22 of which came in official competitive matches. As Messi evolved from the teams symbolic captain into a genuine leader, he led Argentina to the knockout stage as group winners. In the quarterfinal, they created numerous chances, including a rebound header by Messi, but were repeatedly denied by Colombias goalkeeper, and ultimately ended the match scoreless, leading to a 54 penalty shootout in their favour. At the semifinal stage, Messi excelled as playmaker as he provided three assists and helped create three more goals in his sides 61 victory over Paraguay, receiving applause from the initially hostile crowd. Argentina started the final as the oddson title favourites, but were defeated by Chile 41 in a penalty shootout after an  extratime draw. Faced with aggression from opposing players, including taking a boot to the midriff, Messi played below his standards, though he was the only Argentine to successfully convert his penalty. At the close of the tournament, he was reportedly selected to receive the Most Valuable Player award but rejected the honour. As Argentina continued a trophy drought that began in 1993, the World Cup and Copa America defeats again brought intense criticism for Messi from Argentine media and fans. . .  216: Copa America Centenario, retirement, and return . Messis place in Argentinas Copa America Centenario squad was initially put in jeopardy when he sustained a back injury in a 1 friendly win over Honduras in a preCopa America warmup match on 27 May 216. It was later reported that he had suffered a deep bruise in his lumbar region, but that he would remain in Martinos squad for the tournament, although he was later left on the bench in Argentinas 21 opening win over defending champions Chile on 6 June due to concerns regarding his fitness. Although Messi was declared matchfit for his nations second group match against Panama on 1 June, Martino left him on the bench once again he replaced Augusto Fernandez in the 61st minute and subsequently scored a hattrick in 19 minutes, also starting the play which led to Sergio Agueros goal, as the match ended in a 5 victory, sealing Argentinas place in the quarterfinals of the competition he was elected man of the match for his performance. On 18 June 216, in the quarterfinal of the Copa America against Venezuela, Messi produced another man of the match performance, assisting two goals and scoring another in a 41 victory, which enabled him to equal Gabriel Batistutas national record of 54 goals in official international matches. This record was broken three days later when Messi scored in a 4 win in the semifinal of the Copa America against hosts the United States he also assisted two goals during the match as Argentina sealed a place in the final of the competition for a second consecutive year, and was named man of the match once again. . During a repeat of the previous years final on 26 June, Argentina once again lost to Chile on penalties after a  deadlock, resulting in Messis third consecutive defeat in a major tournament final with Argentina, and his fourth overall. After the match, Messi, who had missed his penalty in the shootout, announced his retirement from international football. Sources reported that other Argentine players  Sergio Aguero, Javier Mascherano, Gonzalo Higuain, Lucas Biglia, Ever Banega, Ezequiel Lavezzi and Angel Di Maria  could follow their captain in retiring from international football. Chile coach Juan Antonio Pizzi said after the match, My generation cant compare him to Maradona thats for my generation, because of what Maradona did for Argentine football. But I think the best player ever played today here in the United States. Messi finished the tournament as the second highest scorer, behind Eduardo Vargas, with five goals, and was the highest assist provider with four assists, also winning more Man of the Match awards than any other player in the tournament 3 he was named to the team of the tournament for his performances, but missed out on the Golden Ball Award for best player, which went to Alexis Sanchez. . .  Dont go, Leo . Following his announcement, a campaign began in Argentina for Messi to change his mind about retiring. He was greeted by fans with signs like Dont go, Leo when the team landed in Buenos Aires. President of Argentina Mauricio Macri urged Messi not to quit, stating, We are lucky, it is one of lifes pleasures, it is a gift from God to have the best player in the world in a footballing country like ours. Lionel Messi is the greatest thing we have in Argentina and we must take care of him. Mayor of Buenos Aires Horacio Rodriguez Larreta unveiled a statue of Messi in the capital to convince him reconsider retirement. On social networks, NoTeVayasLeo became a global trending topic, and even a playlist on Spotify. The campaign also continued in the streets and avenues of the Argentine capital, with about 5, supporters going to the Obelisco de Buenos Aires on 2 July, using the same slogan. . .  Return . . Just a week after Messi announced his international retirement, Argentine newspaper La Nacion reported that he was reconsidering playing for Argentina at the 218 FIFA World Cup qualifiers in September. On 12 August, it was confirmed that Messi had reversed his decision to retire from international football, and he was included in the squad for the national teams upcoming 218 World Cup qualifiers. On 1 September 216, in his first game back, he scored in a 1 home win over Uruguay in a 218 World Cup qualifier. . On 28 March 217, Messi was suspended for four international games for insulting an assistant referee in a game against Chile on 23 March 217. He was also fined CHF 1,. On 5 May 217, Messis four match ban as well as his 1, CHF fine was lifted by FIFA after Argentina Football Association appealed against his suspension, which meant he could now play Argentinas remaining World Cup Qualifiers. Argentinas place in the 218 World Cup was in jeopardy going into their final qualifying match as they were sixth in their group, outside the five possible CONMEBOL World Cup qualifying spots, meaning they risked failing to qualify for the World Cup for the first time since 197. On 1 October 217, Messi led his country to World Cup qualification in scoring a hattrick as Argentina came from behind to defeat Ecuador 31 away Argentina had not defeated Ecuador in Quito since 21. Messis three goals saw him become the joint alltime leading scorer in CONMEBOL World Cup qualifiers with 21 goals, alongside Uruguays Luis Suarez, overtaking the previous record which was held by compatriot Hernan Crespo. . .  Player profile . . .  Style of play . . Due to his short stature, Messi has a lower centre of gravity than taller players, which gives him greater agility, allowing him to change direction more quickly and evade opposing tackles this has led the Spanish media to dub him La Pulga Atomica The Atomic Flea. Despite being physically unimposing, he possesses significant upperbody strength, which, combined with his low centre of gravity and resulting balance, aids him in withstanding physical challenges from opponents he has consequently been noted for his lack of diving in a sport rife with playacting. His short, strong legs allow him to excel in short bursts of acceleration while his quick feet enable him to retain control of the ball when dribbling at speed. His former Barcelona manager Pep Guardiola once stated, Messi is the only player that runs faster with the ball than he does without it. Although he has improved his ability with his weaker foot since his mid2s, Messi is predominantly a leftfooted player with the outside of his left foot, he usually begins dribbling runs, while he uses the inside of his foot to finish and provide passes and assists. . A prolific goalscorer, Messi is known for his finishing, positioning, quick reactions, and ability to make attacking runs to beat the defensive line. He also functions in a playmaking role, courtesy of his vision and precise passing, and is an accurate free kick and penalty kick taker, though his ability on penalties has somewhat deteriorated in recent seasons. His pace and technical ability enable him to undertake individual dribbling runs towards goal, in particular during counterattacks, usually starting from the halfway line or the right side of the pitch. Widely considered to be the best dribbler in the world, and one of the greatest of all time, with regard to this ability, his former Argentina manager Diego Maradona has said of him, The ball stays glued to his foot Ive seen great players in my career, but Ive never seen anyone with Messis ball control. Beyond his individual qualities, he is also a wellrounded, hardworking team player, known for his creative combinations, in particular with Barcelona midfielders Xavi and Andres Iniesta. Tactically, Messi plays in a free attacking role a versatile player, he is capable of attacking on either wing or through the centre of the pitch. His favoured position in childhood was the playmaker behind two strikers, known as the enganche in Argentine football, but he began his career in Spain as a leftwinger or leftsided forward. Upon his firstteam debut, he was moved onto the right wing by manager Frank Rijkaard from this position, he could more easily cut through the defence into the middle of the pitch and curl shots on goal with his left foot, rather than predominantly cross balls for teammates. Under Guardiola and subsequent managers, he most often played in a false nine role positioned as a centreforward or lone striker, he would roam the centre, often moving deep into midfield and drawing defenders with him, in order to create and exploit spaces for passes, dribbling runs or combinations with Xavi and Iniesta. Under the stewardship of Luis Enrique, Messi returned to playing in the rightsided position that characterised much of his early career, while also being deployed in a deeper, free role. With the Argentina national team, Messi has similarly played anywhere along the frontline under various managers, he has been employed on the right wing, as a false nine, or in a deeper, creative role as a classic number 1 or attacking midfielder. . .  Reception . A prodigious talent as a teenager, Messi established himself among the worlds best players before age 2. Diego Maradona considered the 18yearold Messi the best player in the world alongside Ronaldinho, while the Brazilian himself, shortly after winning the Ballon dOr, commented, Im not even the best at Barca, in reference to his protege. Four years later, after Messi had won his first Ballon dOr by a record margin, the public debate regarding his qualities as a player moved beyond his status in contemporary football to the possibility that he was the greatest player in history. An early proponent was his thenmanager Pep Guardiola, who, as early as August 29, declared Messi to be the best player he had ever seen. In the following years, this opinion gained greater acceptance among pundits, managers, former and current players, and by the end of Barcas second treblewinning season, Messis superiority, ahead of Maradona and Pele, had become the predominant view among insiders in continental Europe. A frequent dismissal, however, has centred on the fact that Messi has not won the FIFA World Cup with Argentina, leading some in the sport to instead cite him as the best club player in history. . Throughout his career, Messi has been compared with his compatriot Diego Maradona, due to their similar playing styles as diminutive, leftfooted dribblers. Initially, he was merely one of many young Argentine players, including his boyhood idol Pablo Aimar, to receive the New Maradona moniker, but as his career progressed, Messi proved his similarity beyond all previous contenders, establishing himself as the greatest player Argentina had produced since Maradona. Jorge Valdano, who won the 1986 World Cup alongside Maradona, said in October 213, Messi is Maradona every day. For the last five years, Messi has been the Maradona of the World Cup in Mexico. Cesar Menotti, who as manager orchestrated their 1978 World Cup victory, echoed this sentiment when he opined that Messi plays at the level of the best Maradona. Other notable Argentines in the sport, such as Osvaldo Ardiles, Javier Zanetti, and Diego Simeone, have expressed their belief that Messi has overtaken Maradona as the best player in history. In Argentine society, Messi is generally held in lesser esteem than Maradona, a consequence of not only his uneven performances with the national team, but also of differences in class, personality, and background. Messi is in some ways the antithesis of his predecessor: where Maradona was an extroverted, controversial character who rose to greatness from the slums, Messi is reserved and unassuming, an unremarkable man outside of football. An enduring mark against him is the fact that, although through no fault of his own, he never proved himself in the Argentine Primera Division as an upcoming player, achieving stardom overseas from a young age, while his lack of outward passion for the Albiceleste shirthe does not sing the national anthem and is disinclined to emotional displayshave in the past led to the false perception that he felt Catalan rather than truly Argentine. Despite having lived in Spain since age 13, Messi has said: Argentina is my country, my family, my way of expressing myself. I would change all my records to make the people in my country happy. In November 216, with the Argentine Football Association being run by a FIFA committee for emergency due to an economic crisis, it was reported that three of the national teams security staff told Messi that they havent been given their salaries for six months. He stepped in and paid the salaries of the three members. . .  Comparisons to Cristiano Ronaldo . . Among his contemporary peers, Messi is most often compared and contrasted with Portuguese forward Cristiano Ronaldo, as part of an ongoing rivalry that has been compared to past sports rivalries like the Muhammad AliJoe Frazier rivalry in boxing, the Bjorn BorgJohn McEnroe rivalry in tennis, and the Ayrton SennaAlain Prost rivalry from Formula One. Although Messi has at times denied any rivalry, they are widely believed to push one another in their aim to be the best player in the world: since 28, Ronaldo has won four Ballons dOr to Messis five, and as many European Golden Shoes as Messi, with four. Pundits and fans regularly argue the individual merits of both players beyond their playing styles, the debate also revolves around their differing physiquesRonaldo is 1.85 m 6 ft 1 in with a muscular buildand contrasting public personalities, with Ronaldos selfconfidence and theatrics a foil to Messis humility. Messi faces Ronaldo at least twice every season in El Clasico, which ranks among the worlds most viewed annual sports events. Off the pitch, Ronaldo is his direct competitor in terms of salary, sponsorships, and social media fanbase. . .  In popular culture . . According to France Football, Messi was the worlds highestpaid footballer for five years out of six between 29 and 214 he was the first player to exceed the 4 million benchmark, with earnings of 41 million in 213, and the 56 million points, with income of 65 million in 214. In 216, Messi was second on Forbes list of the worlds highestpaid athletes after Cristiano Ronaldo with income of 81.4 million from his salary and endorsements in 21516. Since 28, he has been Barcelonas highestpaid player, receiving a salary that increased incrementally from 7.8 million to 13 million over the next five years. His current salary of 2 million net 36 million before taxes, established in 214, is the highest ever in the sport. In addition to his salary and multimillioneuro bonuses, much of his income derives from endorsements SportsPro has consequently cited him as one of the worlds most marketable athletes every year since their research began in 21. His main sponsor since 26 is the sportswear company Adidas. As Barcas leading youth prospect, he had been signed with Nike since age 14, but transferred to Adidas after they successfully challenged their rivals claim to his image rights in court. Over time, Messi established himself as their leading brand endorser from 28, he had a longrunning signature collection of Adidas F5 boots, and in 215, he became the first footballer to receive his own subbrand of boots, the Adidas Messi. . As a commercial entity, Messis marketing brand has been based exclusively on his talents and achievements as a player, in contrast to arguably more glamorous players like Cristiano Ronaldo and David Beckham. At the start of his career, he thus mainly held sponsorship contracts with companies that employ sportsoriented marketing, such as Adidas, Pepsi, and Konami. From 21 onwards, concurrently with his increased achievements as a player, his marketing appeal widened, leading to longterm endorsement deals with luxury brands Dolce  Gabbana and Audemars Piguet. Messi is also a global brand ambassador for Gillette, Turkish Airlines, Ooredoo, and Tata Motors, among other companies. Additionally, Messi was the face of Konamis video game series Pro Evolution Soccer, appearing on the covers of PES 29, PES 21 and PES 211. He subsequently signed with rival company EA Sports to become the face of their series FIFA and has since appeared on four consecutive covers from FIFA 13 to FIFA 16. . Messis global popularity and influence are well documented. He was among the Time 1, an annual list of the worlds most influential people as published by Time, in 211 and 212. His fanbase on the social media website Facebook is among the largest of all public figures: within seven hours of its launch in April 211, his Facebook page had nearly seven million followers, and by November 213, he had become only the second sportsperson, after Cristiano Ronaldo, to amass over 5 million followers. According to a 214 survey by sports research firm Repucom in 15 international markets, Messi was familiar to 87 of respondents around the world, of whom 78 perceived him favourably, making him the secondmost recognised player globally, behind Ronaldo, and the most likable of all contemporary players. Other events have illustrated Messis presence in popular culture. A solid gold replica of his left foot, weighing 25 kg 55 lb and valued at 5.25 million, went on sale in Japan in March 213 to raise funds for victims of the 211 Tohoku earthquake and tsunami. A 213 Turkish Airlines advertisement starring Messi, in which he engages in a selfie competition with thenLos Angeles Lakers star Kobe Bryant, was the mostwatched ad on YouTube in the year of its release, receiving 137 million views, and was subsequently voted the best advertisement of the 2515 decade to commemorate YouTubes founding. World Press Photo selected The Final Game, a photograph of Messi facing the World Cup trophy after Argentinas final defeat to Germany, as the best sports image of 214. Messi, a documentary about his life by filmmaker Alex de la Iglesia, premiered at the Venice Film Festival in August 214. . .  Personal life . . .  Family and relationships . Since 28, when he was 2, Messi has been in a relationship with Antonella Roccuzzo, a fellow native of Rosario. He has known Roccuzzo since he was five years old, as she is the cousin of his best friend since childhood, Lucas Scaglia, who is also a football player. After keeping their relationship private for a year, Messi first confirmed their romance in an interview in January 29, before going public a month later during a carnival in Sitges after the BarcelonaEspanyol derby. He had previously been romantically linked with Argentine models Macarena Lemos and Luciana Salazar. . Messi and Roccuzzo have two sons: Thiago born 212 and Mateo born 215. To celebrate his partners first pregnancy, Messi placed the ball under his shirt after scoring in Argentinas 4 win against Ecuador on 2 June 212, before confirming the pregnancy in an interview two weeks later. Thiago was born in Barcelona on 2 November 212, with Messi attending the birth after being given permission by Barcelona to miss training. He announced his sons arrival on his Facebook page, writing, Today I am the happiest man in the world, my son was born and thanks to God for this gift Thiagos name and handprints are tattooed on his left calf. In April 215, Messi confirmed on Facebook that they were expecting another child. He missed training ahead of a match against Atletico Madrid to attend the birth of his second son, Mateo, on 11 September 215 in Barcelona. On 3 June 217, he married Roccuzzo at a luxury hotel named Hotel City Center in Rosario with about 26 guests attending his wedding. On 15 October 217, his wife announced they were expecting their third child in an Instagram post, with the words Family of 5. . Messi enjoys a close relationship with his immediate family members, particularly his mother, Celia, whose face he has tattooed on his left shoulder. His professional affairs are largely run as a family business: his father, Jorge, has been his agent since he was 14, and his oldest brother, Rodrigo, handles his daily schedule and publicity. His mother and other brother, Matias, manage his charitable organisation, the Leo Messi Foundation, and take care of personal and professional matters in Rosario. Since leaving for Spain at age 13, Messi has maintained close ties to his hometown of Rosario, even preserving his distinct Rosarino accent. He has kept ownership of his familys old house, although it has long stood empty he maintains a penthouse apartment in an exclusive residential building for his mother, as well as a family compound just outside the city. Once when he was in training with the national team in Buenos Aires, he made a threehour trip by car to Rosario immediately after practice to have dinner with his family, spent the night with them, and returned to Buenos Aires the next day in time for practice. Messi keeps in daily contact via phone and text with a small group of confidants in Rosario, most of whom were fellow members of The Machine of 87 at Newells Old Boys. Although considered a oneclub man, he has long planned to return to Rosario to end his playing career at Newells. He was on bad terms with the club after his transfer to Barcelona, but by 212 their public feud had ended, with Newells embracing their ties with Messi, even issuing a club membership card to his newborn son. . .  Charity . Throughout his career, Messi has been involved in charitable efforts aimed at vulnerable children, a commitment that stems in part from the medical difficulties he faced in his own childhood. Since 24, he has contributed his time and finances to the United Nations Childrens Fund UNICEF, an organisation with which Barcelona also have a strong association. Messi has served as a UNICEF goodwill ambassador since his appointment in March 21, completing his first field mission for the organisation four months later as he travelled to Haiti to bring public awareness to the plight of the countrys children in the wake of the recent earthquake. He has since participated in UNICEF campaigns targeting HIV prevention, education, and the social inclusion of disabled children. To celebrate his sons first birthday, in November 213, Messi and Thiago were part of a publicity campaign to raise awareness of mortality rates among disadvantaged children. . In addition to his work with UNICEF, Messi founded his own charitable organisation, the Leo Messi Foundation, which supports access to health care, education, and sport for children. It was established in 27 following a visit Messi paid to a hospital for terminally ill children in Boston, an experience that resonated with him to the point that he decided to reinvest part of his earnings into society. Through his foundation, Messi has awarded research grants, financed medical training, and invested in the development of medical centres and projects in Argentina, Spain, and elsewhere in the world. In addition to his own fundraising activities, such as his global Messi and Friends football matches, his foundation receives financial support from various companies to which he has assigned his name in endorsement agreements, with Adidas as their main sponsor. Messi has also invested in youth football in Argentina: he financially supports Sarmiento, a football club based in the Rosario neighbourhood where he was born, committing in 213 to the refurbishment of their facilities and the installation of allweather pitches, and funds the management of several youth players at Newells Old Boys and rival club Rosario Central, as well as at River Plate and Boca Juniors in Buenos Aires. At Newells Old Boys, his boyhood club, he funded the 212 construction of a new gymnasium and a dormitory inside the clubs stadium for their youth academy. His former youth coach at Newells, Ernesto Vecchio, is employed by the Leo Messi Foundation as a talent scout for young players. On 7 June 216, Messi won a libel case against La Razon newspaper and was awarded 65, in damages, which he donated to the charity Doctors without Borders. . .  Legal issues . Messis financial affairs came under investigation in 213 for suspected tax evasion. Offshore companies in tax havens Uruguay and Belize were allegedly used to evade 4.1 million in taxes related to sponsorship earnings between 27 and 29. An unrelated shell company in Panama, set up in 212, was subsequently identified as belonging to the Messis in the Panama Papers data leak. Messi, who pleaded ignorance of the alleged scheme, voluntarily paid arrears of 5.1 million in August 213. He stood trial alongside his father on three counts of tax evasion in May 216. On 6 July 216, Messi and his father were both found guilty of tax fraud and were handed suspended 21month prison sentences and respectively ordered to pay 1.7 million and 1.4 million in fines. While the District Attorney did not consider there to be motives to accuse Messi, the state lawyers office became the only party that requested a punishment for him, despite his declarations that he was not aware of any of the deals that were taking place with his money. Facing the judge, he said, I just played football. . .  Career statistics . . .  Club . As of 26 November 217. Notes. . .  International . . As of 11 November 217. Notes. . .  Honours and achievements . . .  Club . As of 27 May 217. Barcelona. La Liga: 245, 256, 289, 291, 2111, 21213, 21415, 21516. Copa del Rey: 289, 21112, 21415, 21516, 21617. Supercopa de Espana: 26, 29, 21, 211, 213, 216. UEFA Champions League: 256, 289, 2111, 21415. UEFA Super Cup: 29, 211, 215. FIFA Club World Cup: 29, 211, 215. . .  International . Argentina. FIFA U2 World Cup: 25. Olympic Gold Medal: 28. . .  Individual . . .  Awards . . .  Performances . La Liga top goalscorer: 291, 21112, 21213, 21617. La Liga top assist provider: 2111, 21415, 21516. Copa del Rey top goalscorer: 289, 2111, 21314, 21516, 21617. Copa del Rey top assist provider: 21617. UEFA Champions League top goalscorer: 289, 291, 2111, 21112, 21415. UEFA Champions League top assist provider: 21112, 21415. FIFA Club World Cup top goalscorer: 211. FIFA World Youth Championship top goalscorer: 25. Copa America top assist provider: 211, 215, 216. . .  Records . As of November 217. . .  World . Most FIFA Ballons dOr: 5 2912, 215. Most consecutive Ballons dOr: 4. Youngest twotime and threetime Ballon dOr winner: 23 and 24 years old. Top goalscorer in the history of FIFA Club World Cup: 5 goals shared with Cesar Delgado, Luis Suarez and Cristiano Ronaldo. Guinness World Record as top goalscorer for club and country in a calendar year: 91 goals in 212. Top goalscorer in all club competitions in a calendar year: 79 goals in 212. Top goalscorer in a club season: 73 goals in 21112. Longest goalscoring run in a domestic league: 21 matches, 33 goals in 21213. Only player to have won more than one FIFA Club World Cup Golden Ball. Only player to have won more than one FIFA Club World Cup Final Most Valuable Player award. Most appearances in the FIFPro World XI: 11 times 27217 shared with Cristiano Ronaldo. . .  Continental . Most goals in a European CupChampions League game: 5 goals shared with 13 other players. Most European Golden Shoe awards: 4 shared with Cristiano Ronaldo. Most hattricks scored in the UEFA Champions League: 7 shared with Cristiano Ronaldo. Youngest player to make 1 appearances in the UEFA Champions League: 28 years, 84 days in 215. Top goalscorer in the UEFA Super Cup: 3 goals shared with Arie Haan, Oleg Blokhin, Gerd Muller, Rob Rensenbrink, Francois Van der Elst, Terry McDermott, and Radamel Falcao. Most appearances in the ESM Team of the Year: 1 26, 28213, 215217. Top assist provider in Copa America: 11 assists. Most goals in CONMEBOL World Cup Qualifiers: 21 goals shared with Luis Suarez. . .  Spain . Most Best Player in La Liga awards: 6 2913, 215. Most Best Forward in La Liga awards: 7 2913, 215, 216. Top goalscorer in La Liga: 361 goals. Top assist provider in La Liga: 14 assists. Top goalscorer in the Supercopa de Espana: 13 goals. Top goalscorer in a La Liga season: 5 goals in 21112. Most braces scored in La Liga: 15. Most hattricks scored in a La Liga season: 8 in 21112 shared with Cristiano Ronaldo. Most teams scored against in a season: 19 in 21213 shared with Ronaldo Nazario and Cristiano Ronaldo. Only player to score consecutively against all opposition teams in La Liga: 19 matches, 3 goals in 21213. First player to reach 3 La Liga goals. First player to reach 35 La Liga goals. Youngest player to score 2 goals in La Liga: 25 years and 7 months in January 213. . .  Argentina . Argentina alltime top goalscorer: 61 goals. Top goalscorer for Argentina in a calendar year: 12 goals in 212 shared with Gabriel Batistuta. Only Argentina player to score against every CONMEBOL nation. Youngest player to play for Argentina in a FIFA World Cup: 18 years, 357 days in 26. Youngest player to score for Argentina in a FIFA World Cup: 18 years, 357 days in 26. Youngest player to reach 1 caps for a country under CONMEBOLs jurisdiction: 27 years, 361 days in 215. . .  Barcelona . Top goalscorer in El Clasico: 25 goals. Top goalscorer in the Derbi barceloni: 2 goals. Top goalscorer in official competitions: 523 goals. Top goalscorer including friendlies: 557 goals. Top goalscorer in the UEFA Champions League: 97 goals. Top goalscorer in European competitions: 1 goals. Top goalscorer in international competitions: 15. Most hattricks scored in all competitions: 39. Most hattricks scored in La Liga: 28. First player to be top goalscorer in four La Liga seasons 291, 21112, 21213, 21617. Most titles won with the team: 3 shared with Andres Iniesta. . .  See also . MessiRonaldo rivalry. . .  References . Notes. . Citations. . Bibliography. . .  External links . . Official website in Catalan in English in Spanish. Profile for FC Barcelona. Profile at La Liga. Lionel Messi at ESPN FC. Lionel Messi at BDFutbol. Lionel Messi at Soccerway. Lionel Messi at Soccerbase . Lionel Messi at NationalFootballTeams.com. Lionel Messi  FIFA competition record. Lionel Messi  UEFA competition record