Neymar da Silva Santos Junior Portuguese pronunciation: nejma d siwv stus uo born 5 February 1992, commonly known as Neymar or Neymar Jr., is a Brazilian professional footballer who plays as a forward for French club Paris SaintGermain and the Brazil national team. Neymar came into prominence at an early age at Santos, where he made his professional debut aged 17. He helped the club win two successive Campeonato Paulista championships, a Copa do Brasil, and the 211 Copa Libertadores, Santos first continental title since 1963. Neymar was twice named the South American Footballer of the Year, in 211 and 212, before relocating to Europe to join Barcelona. As part of Barcas attacking trio with Lionel Messi and Luis Suarez, he won the continental treble of La Liga, the Copa del Rey, and the UEFA Champions League in the 21415 season, followed the next year by the domestic double. He came third for the FIFA Ballon dOr in 215. In August 217, Neymar moved from Barcelona to Paris SaintGermain in a transaction worth 222 million, making him the worlds most expensive player. With 53 goals in 83 matches for Brazil since debuting at age 18, Neymar is the fourthhighest goalscorer for his national team. He was a key player in Brazils victories at the 211 South American Youth Championship, which he finished as the leading goalscorer, and the 213 FIFA Confederations Cup, where he won the Golden Ball as player of the tournament. His participation in the 214 FIFA World Cup and 215 Copa America was cut short by injury and a suspension respectively, but the next year he captained Brazil to their first Olympic gold medal in mens football at the 216 Summer Olympics. Known for his dribbling, finishing, and ability with both feet, Neymar has earned comparisons to former Brazil and Santos forward Pele. Off the pitch, he ranks among the worlds most prominent sportsmen SportsPro named him the most marketable athlete in the world in 212 and 213, and ESPN cited him as the worlds fourthmost famous athlete in 216. . .  Early life . Neymar da Silva Santos Junior was born in Mogi das Cruzes, Sao Paulo, to Neymar Santos, Sr. and Nadine da Silva. He inherited his name from his father, who is a former footballer and became his sons advisor as Neymars talents began to grow. Neymar comments on his fathers role: My father has been by my side since I was little. He takes care of things, my finances and my family. Growing up, Neymar combined his love of futsal with street football. In 23, Neymar moved with his family to Sao Vicente, where he began playing for youth side Portuguesa Santista. Then, later in 23, they moved to Santos, where Neymar joined Santos FC. With the success of his youth career and added income, the family bought their first property, a house next to the Vila Belmiro. Their quality of family life improved, as at age 15, Neymar was earning 1, reais per month and at 16, 125, reais per month. At 17, he signed his first full professional contract, was upgraded to the Santos first team, and began signing his first sponsorship deals. . .  Club career . . .  Santos . . .  Youth . Neymar began playing football at an early age and he was soon spotted by Santos FC who offered him a contract in 23, where he was inducted into their youth academy, which has, in the past, produced Brazilian internationals like Coutinho, Clodoaldo, Diego, Elano and Alex. He also joined the likes of Pepe, Pele and Robinho in starting out his career at the club, nicknamed Peixe. While in the youth academy, Neymar met Paulo Henrique Ganso, becoming good friends in the process. Aged 14, Neymar travelled to Spain to join the Real Madrid youth team, at the time when Real had stars like Ronaldo, Zinedine Zidane, David Beckham, Roberto Carlos and Robinho. . .  29: Debut season . Neymar made his professional debut on 7 March 29, despite being only 17 years old he was brought on for the last thirty minutes, in a 21 win against Oeste. The following week he scored his first goal for Santos against Mogi Mirim. One month later, on 11 April, Neymar scored the decisive goal in a 21 win against Palmeiras in the 29 Campeonato Paulista semifinal first leg. In the final, however, Santos suffered a 42 aggregate defeat to the Corinthians. In his first season, Neymar racked up 14 goals in 48 games. . .  21: Campeonato Paulista success . . Neymar continued his ascendancy in 21, and, on 15 April 21, he scored five goals for Santos in an 81 rout of Guarani in the qualifying stages of the Brazilian Cup. Following the 21 Campeonato Paulista in which Neymar scored 14 goals in 19 games, the club were crowned champions after a 55 aggregate win over Santo Andre in the finals. Neymar was subsequently given the award for the best player in the competition. Neymars performances for Santos have drawn comparisons to other Brazilians, including Robinho and Brazilian legend Pele. In 21, Santos rejected a 12 million bid for him from English Premier League team West Ham United, and later an offer from another English club, Chelsea, reported to be in the region of 2 million. Despite Santos unwillingness to sell and Neymar himself insisting Im focused only on Santos, his agent, Wagner Ribeiro, indicated that Neymars career was elsewhere, stating He wants to become the best player in the world. The chances of him doing that while playing in Brazil are zero. Although one year later Neymar admitted, in an interview with the Daily Telegraph, that he had been happy with Chelseas interest in him as it was a dream of his to play in Europe, while also stating that at the time it had been the right decision to stay in Brazil. On 3 November 21, Santos sold a 5 share of future transfer fees that he would receive to an investment group, Terceira Estrela Investimentos S.A. TEISA, for R 3,549,9 1.5 million. The previous year, his family had sold a 4 stake in Neymars sporting rights to the DIS Esporte group who had been a longterm strategic partner of Santos football club. Despite his first two seasons being highly successful, having ended the 21 season with an impressive 42 goals in 6 games, problems had been identified, namely Neymars apparent taste for diving when tackled, rather than attempting to continue his run, and his attitude. The latter came to the forefront during a match with Atletico Goianiense, on 15 September 21, when the Santos manager, Dorival Junior, appointed another player to take the penalty awarded for a foul on Neymar. His decision was based on the fact that Neymar had missed a crucial penalty during the Copa do Brasil final of that year, even if Santos went on to win. Reacting to this, Neymar turned his back on his manager, had to be calmed down by a linesman and argued with his captain, Edu Dracena. The fallout from this event was that Dorival Junior wished to have Neymar suspended for two weeks, but the board sided with the player and promptly sacked the manager. Despite Neymars apologies over the incident, some doubts still remain about his attitude. In December 21, aged just 18, Neymar came third for the 21 South American Footballer of the Year, behind Andres DAlessandro and Juan Sebastian Veron. . .  211: Puskas Award . . Neymar scored six goals during Santos run to the 211 Copa Libertadores Finals, tying him for third top goalscorer, including the clinching goal of Santos 43 aggregate win over Cerro Porteno in the semifinals. In the twolegged final, Santos faced Uruguayan side Penarol and drew the first leg  in Montevideo. At home in the second leg, Neymar opened the scoring in the 46th minute as Santos held on for a 21 win and Neymar won Man of the Match honours. The win brought Santos their first Copa Libertadores triumph since 1963, when Brazilian legend Pele was playing for the club. In September 211, Santos club president Luis Ribeiro threatened to report Real Madrid to FIFA following reports that they had attempted to sign Neymar to a precontract agreement, and denied that such an agreement was in place. On 9 November 211, Neymar and Santos agreed to a contract extension that would see the player stay with the club until after the 214 World Cup in Brazil. The deal reportedly increased Neymars wages by 5, to the levels that top European clubs would be paying him. On 14 December 211, Neymar scored the opening goal for Santos as they defeated Kashiwa Reysol 31 in the semifinals of the FIFA Club World Cup at the Toyota Stadium in Toyota, Japan, but failed to score against Barcelona in the final on 18 December 211, where Santos were defeated 4, finishing as runnersup in the competition. He won the 211 FIFA Puskas Award for scoring a solo goal in the Brasileirao Serie A against Flamengo, in a 54 loss. On 31 December 211, he won the 211 South American Footballer of the Year award for the first time, by a record margin, following in the footsteps of Diego Maradona, Romario, Pele and Zico. . .  212: South Americas best player . On 5 February 212, when he turned 2, Neymar scored his 1th goal as a professional football player, against Palmeiras in the Campeonato Paulista. On 25 February 212  he scored two goals, one of which was from 25yards  and created two assists to help his side to a 61 win over Ponte Preta. On 7 March 212, Neymar netted a hattrick as Santos saw off Brazilian rivals Internacional 31 in the Copa Libertadores Group stage match. On 29 March, he scored a brace against Guaratingueta in a 5 victory. In the fixture against Sao Paulo on 29 April 212, Neymar scored a hattrick with the match ending 31. Thereafter, he went on to score twice in the first and second legs in the 212 Campeonato Paulista Finals against Guarani, which ended 72 on aggregate. Neymar finished the 212 Campeonato Paulista with 2 goals and was voted the Best player and Best Forward, and Santos were crowned champions. He was joint top scorer in the Copa Libertadores with eight goals, after Santos were beaten over two legs by eventual champions Corinthians in the semifinals. On 25 August 212, he scored a brace in the 21 away win at Palmeiras. On 3 November 212, in the Brasileiro Serie A away fixture at Cruzeiro, Neymar scored a hattrick and assisted Felipe Andersons goal, to help his side to a 4 win. Neymar finished off the 212 season in style, first settingup Victor Andrades equaliser, then scoring twice, to give Santos a 31 home win over Palmeiras on 1 December 212. Neymar was voted the Best Player of the 212 Recopa Sudamericana, Neymar scoring in the second leg to win the title 2 on aggregate. He finished the 212 Campeonato Brasileiro Serie A with 14 goals and being voted the Best forward. Neymar finished the 212 season, being award the Golden Ball, Arthur Friedenreich Award and Armando Nogueira Trophy. He was one of three finalists in the 212 FIFA Puskas Award and finished runnersup behind Miroslav Stoch. He won the 212 South American Footballer of the Year, retaining his award and winning it ahead of the likes of Ronaldinho. Reports emerged in 211 that Santos reached an agreement with Barcelona to sign him at a later stage. Neymar, however, rejected this in an interview, saying that he had no agreement with Barcelona or anyone else. . .  213: Final season . Neymar started the 213 Campeonato Paulista scoring twice in the first match, which ended a 31 win over Sao Bernardo on 19 January 213. Four days later on 23 January 213, Neymar scored again against Botafogo in a 3 win. On 3 February 213, in the Paulista fixture against Sao Paulo, where Santos won 31, with Neymar scoring and making two assists. on 18 March 213, Neymar told that he had a dream of playing in Europe, for a big club like Barcelona, Real Madrid and Chelsea. But he went on to say, Theres no point in speculating when Ill leave Santos. Ill leave when I want to. Neymar scored all four goals, had another disallowed and hit the post as Santos beat Uniao Barbarense 4 in the Paulista on 13 April. On 25 April 213, his agent and father revealed that Neymar intended to leave for Europe before the 214 FIFA World Cup. Ahead of his last match for Santos, on 26 May against Flamengo, Neymar was in tears during the national anthem. . .  Barcelona . . On 24 May 213, Santos announced that they had received two offers for Neymar. The following day, Neymar announced he would sign with Barcelona on 27 May 213 and join the team after playing in the 213 FIFA Confederations Cup. Neither Neymar nor the clubs released details on the transfer fee or personal terms, save to say he signed a fiveyear deal. On 3 June 213, Neymar was unveiled by Barcelona after passing medical tests and signing a contract that would keep him at the club through June 218. Neymar was presented at the Camp Nou in front of 56,5 fans, a record turnout for a Brazilian player. Club vicepresident Josep Maria Bartomeu initially said Neymars transfer fee was 57.1 million and his release clause set at 19 million. Barcelonas doctor suggested he might need to gain weight to be able to cope physically in Spanish football. . .  Transfer investigation . In January 214, the prosecutors office in Madrid began investigating the transfer fee that Barcelona paid for Neymar. The documents submitted to the authorities on request contained contradictory information. On 23 January 214, Rosell resigned from his position as president. A day later, the details of the transfer were revealed by Barcelona the transfer had in fact cost them 86.2 million 71.5 million, with Neymars parents confirmed to have received a 4 million sum. In the aftermath, Barcelona and Bartomeu were charged with tax fraud. . .  21314: Adapting to Spain . On 3 July 213, Barcelona drew 22 against Lechia Gdansk in a preseason friendly Neymar made his unofficial debut when he came on as a substitute. He scored his first goal for the club in a 71 win against a Thailand XI on 7 August. Neymar made his competitive debut for Barcelona during the opening game of the 21314 La Liga season as a 63rdminute substitute for Alexis Sanchez in a 7 win against Levante. On 21 August, he scored his first competitive goal for the club in the first leg of the 213 Supercopa de Espana against Atletico Madrid: seven minutes after coming on as a substitute for Pedro, he headed Dani Alves cross to equalise in a 11 draw at the Vicente Calderon Stadium as Barcelona won on the away goals rule for his first trophy at the club. On 18 September, he made his UEFA Champions League debut, assisting a Gerard Pique goal as Barca beat Ajax 4 in their opening match of the 21314 tournament. Six days later, Neymar scored his first goal in La Liga in Barcelonas 41 defeat of Real Sociedad at Camp Nou. On 26 October, he made his first El Clasico appearance, scoring the opening goal and assisting the teams winning goal scored by Alexis Sanchez as Barcelona beat Real Madrid 21 at Camp Nou. On 11 December, Neymar recorded his first three Champions League goals as he scored a hattrick in a 61 win over Celtic in Barcelonas final Group H match. . .  21415: The treble and individual success . . On 13 September 214, after appearing as a substitute, Neymar scored his first two goals of the 21415 season, helping Barcelona beat Athletic Bilbao 2. On 27 September, he scored a hattrick against Granada in a 6 win and went on to score in his next three La Liga matches, including the opening goal in a 13 loss to Real Madrid at Estadio Santiago Bernabeu. On 24 January 215, Neymar scored twice and assisted two more goals in a 6 win at Elche. On 28 January, he scored his 2th goal of the season in a 32 Copa del Rey quarterfinal win over Atletico Madrid. On 4 March, Neymar scored twice in Barcelonas 31 Copa del Rey semifinal win over Villarreal to qualify the club for its 37th Spanish Cup final. On 21 April, Neymar took his tally to 3 goals for the season by scoring twice in Barcelonas 2 Champions League quarterfinal win over Paris SaintGermain to qualify the club for the semifinals. In May, the closing month of the season, Neymar scored the last goal in a 3 win against Bayern Munich in the first leg of the Champions League semifinal. A week later, he scored both the teams goals in a 32 second leg defeat at the Allianz Arena to ensure Barca would qualify for the 215 UEFA Champions League Final. He also opened the scoring with a header in a 2 league win versus Real Sociedad, a result which gave Barca a fourpoint lead over Real Madrid with only two matches remaining. After securing the league title on 17 May with a 1 win over Atletico Madrid at the Vicente Calderon, Barcelona defeated Athletic Bilbao 31 at Camp Nou in the 215 Copa del Rey Final on 3 May, with Neymar scoring the second goal for Barca. With Barcelonas victory likely, he performed tricks with the ball in the final stages of the game, which was deemed unsporting by opponent Andoni Iraola. Barcelona manager Luis Enrique claimed that it had to be understood that such behaviour was acceptable in Brazil, while Neymar himself did not apologise. On 6 June 215, Neymar scored the third goal for Barca in the 31 Champions League Final defeat of Italian champions Juventus at Berlins Olympiastadion, ensuring the club won its fifth European Cup. This made Barcelona the first club in history to win the treble of domestic league, domestic cup and European Cup twice. On a personal note, he became the eighth player in footballs history to win both the Copa Libertadores and the UEFA Champions League, and the first player to score in final victories in both competitions. Neymar ended the season with 39 goals in all competitions and 1 in the Champions League, making him joint highest scorer with Cristiano Ronaldo and teammate Lionel Messi in the latter competition. He was the first player apart from those two to top the competitions scoring list, since compatriot Kaka in 267. Barcelonas attacking trio of Messi, Luis Suarez and Neymar, dubbed MSN, ended with 122 goals, the most in a season for an attacking trio in Spanish football history. . .  21516: Domestic double . Due to having the mumps, Neymar was expected to miss the 215 UEFA Super Cup and the 215 Supercopa de Espana. On 17 October, Neymar scored four goals in Barcelonas 52 home win over Rayo Vallecano in La Liga, taking his total to eight goals for the season. On 21 November, Neymar scored one and provided a back heel assist for Andres Iniesta in Barcelonas 4 away win against Real Madrid. He scored twice in a 4 home win over Real Sociedad on 28 November, taking his La Liga total to 14 goals in 12 games. On 3 November, Neymar was shortlisted for the 215 FIFA Ballon dOr alongside Messi and Ronaldo, and subsequently came third. On 22 May 216, Neymar scored a late goal in Barcelonas 2 extra time win over Sevilla in the 216 Copa del Rey Final at the Vicente Calderon, as the club celebrated winning the domestic double for the second consecutive season, following their treble victory from the previous season. . .  21617: Final season . On 2 April 217, Neymar scored his 1th goal for Barcelona in his 177th appearance for the club, netting in a 41 win over Granada. On 27 May, Neymar scored in the 217 Copa del Rey Final, his 15th goal for the club, as Barcelona defeated Alaves 31 at the Vicente Calderon in Madrid. . .  Paris SaintGermain . . On 3 August 217, Barcelona announced that Neymars legal representatives made a payment of 222 million to the club most expensive transfer ever, equal to the release clause of his contract. The club informed UEFA so that they can determine any disciplinary responsibilities that may arise from this case. According to the BBC, in Spain, the release clause must be activated by the footballer himself. The situation was unusual that the fee was paid to the club directly after La Liga had refused to receive the payment. Neymar joined French club Paris SaintGermain on a contract that will run until 222. He was offered the number 1 jersey by Javier Pastore as a welcome gift. . .  Contract breach lawsuit . On 27 August 217, FC Barcelona filed a lawsuit against Neymar, demanding he return the contract renewal bonus he received as well as 8.5 million in damages and an additional 1 for the arrears. They claimed they are owed money that Neymar received as part of a renewal bonus when he signed a new contract in 216. The club also requested Paris SaintGermain to take on the responsibility for the payment of the fees if the player cannot do so himself. Neymars lawyers announced that they will contest the case. . .  21718 season . He made his debut for Les RougeetBleu on 13 August, netting a goal for himself and also setting up another in a 3 away victory over Guingamp. Neymar added two more goals to his tally in the next Ligue 1 fixture against Toulouse. Forming a prolific attacking trio alongside 18yearold French prodigy Kylian Mbappe and Uruguayan striker Edinson Cavani, Neymar scored one each in PSGs two opening games of the 21718 UEFA Champions League group stage, with the team winning 5 at Celtic and 3 at home over Bayern Munich respectively. . .  International career . . Following Neymars performances for Brazils under17 team at the 29 U17 World Cup in which he scored a goal in the opening match against Japan, former Brazilian football players Pele and Romario reportedly urged coach Dunga to take Neymar to the 21 World Cup. Although the widespread opinion that Neymar deserved a place in Dungas squad went as far as a 14, signature petition, and despite the huge pressure on Dunga to pick Neymar, he was omitted from both the squad of 23, and the standby list. Although Dunga described Neymar as extremely talented, he claimed that he had not been tested sufficiently on the international level to earn a World Cup spot and he had failed to impress enough while on international duty. . On 26 July 21, Neymar was selected for the first time in the Brazil senior team by new head coach Mano Menezes for a friendly match against the United States to be played in East Rutherford, New Jersey. On 1 August 21 he made his debut with the national team in that game, aged 18 years old, starting the match and wearing the number 11 jersey. He scored on his debut after 28 minutes, a header coming from an Andre Santos cross in a 2 win for Brazil. On 1 March 211, Neymar said: Being on the Brazilian team is a privilege, There are some marvelous players and Im very happy to be among them. On 27 March 211, he scored twice in a 2 win against Scotland at the Emirates Stadium. During the match against Scotland, a banana was thrown onto the pitch after he scored from the penalty spot, which led Neymar to complain about constant jeering and an atmosphere of racism, implying that Scottish fans exhibited racism. While Scottish officials explained that Neymar had been booed solely for perceived injuryfeigning, a German student who was in the stadium amongst Brazil supporters said that he threw the banana with no racist intentions. This led to the Scottish Football Association asking the Brazilian Football Confederation for an apology for the accusations made to the Scottish fans. Neymar refused to apologize or retract his words, claiming he did not accuse any person or any group of supporters. . .  211 South American Youth Championship and Copa America . Neymar was the leading goal scorer of the 211 South American Youth Championship with nine goals, including two in the final, in Brazils 6 win against Uruguay. He also took part at the 211 Copa America in Argentina, where he scored two goals in the firstround game against Ecuador. He was selected Man of the Match in Brazils first match against Venezuela, which ended a 11 draw. Brazil were eliminated in the quarterfinals in a penalty shootout against Paraguay 22 a.e.t., with Neymar being substituted in the 8th minute. . .  212 Summer Olympics and first hattrick . . On 11 May 212, Neymar was selected for the squad of the Brazil Olympic football team to participate in the London 212 Olympic Games. In Brazils first warmup match on 2 July 212, against the host nation Great Britain at Riverside Stadium, Neymar was involved in both goals of a 2 win, first making an assist with a freekick into the sixyard box for Sandros header, before converting a penalty. On 26 July 212, Neymar scored his first goal of the 212 Summer Olympics in Brazils opening fixture against Egypt, which ended a 32 victory for Brazil. In the following match against Belarus at Old Trafford in Manchester, Neymar scored a freekick from 25yards into the topright corner of the goal and set up goals for Alexandre Patos header with a cross from the right and Oscar with a back heel as Brazil secured their place in the quarterfinals with a 31 win. Afterwards he said: I scored and made two assists so for me it was perfect. On 5 August 212, in the quarterfinal encounter against Honduras, Neymar scored a penalty, his third goal of the tournament and assisted in Leandro Damiaos second goal on the match, to help Brazil to a 32 victory at St James Park and book a place in the semifinals. On 11 August, Brazil lost 21 to Mexico in the final at Wembley Stadium in London. Neymar scored his first full international hattrick on 1 September 212, in an 8 win over China at the Estadio Jose do Rego Maciel in Recife. On 19 September, Neymar scored the winner against Argentina in a 21 win in the first leg of the 212 Superclasico de las Americas at the Estadio Serra Dourada in Goiania, Brazil. . .  213 Confederations Cup . . Neymar was selected as part of Luiz Felipe Scolaris Brazil squad for the 213 Confederations Cup on home soil. For the tournament he was assigned the iconic number 1 shirt, having previously worn 11. Neymar scored the first goal of the tournament in a 3 win over Japan at the Estadio Nacional Mane Garrincha on 15 June. In their second match, Neymar scored after nine minutes and crossed for Jos late goal to give Brazil a 2 win over Mexico. He scored in his third consecutive match, with a powerful free kick from the edge of the penalty area, as Brazil beat Italy 42, and received his third consecutive manofthematch award. On 3 June, Neymar was involved in Freds opening goal and then subsequently scored Brazils second in the 3 final victory over Spain. Neymars performances saw him receive the Golden Ball for player of the tournament. . .  214 World Cup . . On 5 March 214, Neymar scored a hattrick in a friendly win against South Africa in Johannesburg. He made headlines for his conduct after the final whistle when a young South African boy ran onto the pitch. As security staff began to escort the boy from the field, Neymar intervened and introduced him to his Brazil teammates before they all lifted him in the air during their celebrations. On 2 June, Neymar was named to participate with Team Brazil in the 214 FIFA World Cup. Going into the tournament, as the teams star player, Neymar was the man expected to win Brazil its sixth World Cup on home soil. One week prior to the teams opening match, Neymar scored once and made two assists in a 4 friendly win over Panama. . Neymar earned his 5th international cap in the opening match of the tournament, on 12 June against Croatia in Sao Paulo. In the 26th minute, with Croatia leading 1, Neymar elbowed Croatian midfielder Luka Modric, after which Neymar was issued a yellow card. Many critics agreed that Neymars punishment was too lenient and that he should have been issued a red card. He equalised before halftime with a shot from outside the box and gave Brazil the lead in the second half with a penalty kick, following a controversial decision by the referee, in an eventual 31 win. In the third group match, he again scored twice as the Selecao defeated Cameroon 41 to reach the knockout stage. In the round of 16 against Chile, the match finished 11 after 12 minutes and was decided by a penalty shootout with Neymar scoring what proved to be the winning kick for Brazil. . In the quarterfinal defeat of Colombia, while challenging for the ball, Neymar was kneed in the back by Juan Camilo Zuniga and had to be removed from the pitch on a stretcher. A hospital scan revealed that Neymar had suffered a fractured vertebra in his spine and he missed the rest of the World Cup. Earlier in the match, Neymar assisted Thiago Silvas opening goal with a cross from a corner kick. It was the second time in the tournament that a Neymar corner had led to a goal for Brazil, after his cross created David Luizs goal in the previous round against Chile. On 11 July, Neymar was named on the 1man shortlist for FIFAs Golden Ball award for the tournaments best player. He won the Bronze Boot as the tournaments third top goalscorer and was named in the World Cup All Star XI. . .  215 Copa America . With captain Thiago Silva ruled out through injury, new coach Dunga decided to make Neymar captain and confirmed on 5 September that the forward would stay on as skipper on a permanent basis. On 14 October 214, Neymar scored four goals in one game for the first time in his international career, scoring all of Brazils goals in 4 friendly win against Japan at the National Stadium, Singapore. At the age of just 22 years, Neymar had scored 4 goals in 58 internationals, and had become the fifth highest goalscorer for his national team. On 26 March 215, Neymar scored Brazils second goal in a 31 friendly win over France in Paris. On 14 June 215, in Brazils opening Copa America fixture, Neymar scored the equaliser and assisted the stoppagetime winning goal by Douglas Costa as Brazil came from 1 down to beat Peru 21 in Temuco. After Brazils second match, a 1 loss to Colombia in Santiago, Neymar was booked for handball, resulting in a suspension. After the final whistle, he was red carded for deliberately kicking the ball at Pablo Armero, and as a result was pushed over by Colombian striker Carlos Bacca, who was also dismissed. CONMEBOL issued Neymar with a fourmatch ban, ruling him out for the remainder of the tournament, in addition to a 1, fine. . .  216 Summer Olympics . . The CBF had wanted Neymar to play at the Copa America Centenario and the Olympics in Rio during the summer of 216, but after a request from Barcelona manager Luis Enrique, he was rested from the first tournament. In late June 216, he was subsequently one of the three over23 players to be included in Brazils squad for the 216 Summer Olympics on home soil, and was named the teams captain by the Olympic sides manager Rogerio Micale. In Brazils quarterfinal clash with Colombia on 13 August, Neymar scored Brazils first goal of the match, from a direct free kick, and also set up his nations second goal in an eventual 2 win. In Brazils semifinal clash with Honduras on 18 August, Neymar scored twice, Brazils first and last goals of the match, in a 6 win. In the final against Germany at the Maracana in Rio on 2 August, Neymar opened the scoring with a freekick after 27 minutes. The game finished 11 after Max Meyer equalised in the secondhalf. Brazil beat Germany 54 on penalties, and Neymar scored the winning penalty to bring Brazil its first Olympic gold medal in mens football. Both during and prior to the tournament, he had been subjected to criticism over his conduct on and off the pitch, with several former Brazil players suggesting that he was not fit to captain the national team. Neymar subsequently renounced the captaincy following their Olympic victory. . .  Style of play . . Neymar primarily plays as either a central striker, second striker, winger or occasionally as an attacking midfielder, and has been described as a true phenomenon. He often plays as a left sided forward for both club and country in the teams 433 formation, drifting infield, due to his energetic pace and playmaking skills this position allows him to shoot with his stronger foot, or create chances for teammates. Neymars dribbling skills, tricks and playmaking ability are reminiscent of compatriot Ronaldinho. His main traits are his creativity, vision, passing, finishing, dribbling, feints and technique, being described as both electric and explosive. Although naturally rightfooted, he is capable of scoring with both feet, as well as with his head, and is an accurate freekick and penalty taker. He commented on his attributes saying: Im always trying to perfect everything  dribbling, shooting, headers and control. You can always improve. Neymar stated that he has been inspired by Lionel Messi, Cristiano Ronaldo, Andres Iniesta, Xavi and Wayne Rooney. . Brazilian playmaker Ronaldinho had also tipped Neymar on becoming the best player in the world: Neymar is young though, and I cant explain how special he will become. In the next two or three seasons he will become the best player. Another Brazilian star, retired World Cup winner Ronaldo also believes that Neymar can become the best in the world: Logically, Messi is better right now but Neymar is a great talent who will show the world that he will be number one. Former Real Madrid sporting director Jorge Valdano has also praised Neymar, stating: I like Neymar a lot. Many of his individual actions result in a goal and often its a move that only seems to be happening with him on the pitch. FC Barcelona star Xavi also stated that Neymar is a great player, has a very good attitude, and will go on to be the best player in the world. However, Neymar also has been known and criticised for his excessive diving when tackled by another player. For which Pele has told: He is a player with a body that cant take a lot of hits. . A lot of times he will fall because he cant do anything else, but he was overdoing it. He continued: Even when he is fouled, he cant make a spectacle out of it. . .  Comparisons . The media have often drawn comparisons between Neymar and Brazilian legend Pele, as Neymar possesses similar attributes and also like Pele came from the Santos Youth Academy and turned heads with his skill. Neymar has said that Pele is his role model but also saying: I dont like to make a comparison with Pele. On 11 April 212, during the celebrations for the 1 years of Santos, when asked by journalists about Lionel Messi, Pele said he felt that Neymar was better: Now everyone is talking about Messi he is a star. But to be the best ever he must first become better than Neymar, Pele said. At the moment Messi is just more experienced. Neymars increasing reputation led both the media and former great players to draw comparisons between Neymar and Barcelona forward Lionel Messi, which Neymar has commented on saying: Messi is above everyone, there is no use comparing me with him. . He is the best player in the world and I always get inspired when I watch good football. Ronaldo stated: Neymar is a great talent, the best we have in Brazil. He is very similar to Messi. Zico said: I see Neymar like a Cristiano Ronaldo or a Messi, the type who appears and makes things happen. After his hattrick against Internacional 31 in Copa Libertadores and Messis five goals scored in the Champions League, Neymar said: I am a Messi fan. I was told what he did today. I support him to score a lot of nice goals so I can keep copying and imitating him. . .  Outside football . . .  Personal life and charity work . . Neymar has a son, Davi Lucca, with former girlfriend Carolina Dantas. Neymar was quoted as saying: I cried when I learned that I would be his father. At first, I felt fear. Then joy. It is a new responsibility and I am now enjoying it. He later described the birth of his baby boy as: 2.8 kilograms of pure happiness and also said: Mother and baby are in good condition just after childbirth. He has a very close sibling relationship with his sister Rafaella Beckran, and cemented this platonic closeness by tattooing her face on his arm, while Beckran tattooed her brothers eyes on her arm. Neymar is a Christian, and follows the Pentacostal branch of the religion. Neymar has spoken about his faith saying: Life only makes sense when our highest ideal is to serve Christ Additionally, he has sometimes worn a headband with the words 1 Jesus. Neymar reportedly also tithes 1 his income to his church and has named Kaka as his religious role model. Each year, Neymar organizes a charity match with fellow Brazilian footballer Nene in Nenes hometown of Jundiai, with the purpose of raising food for needy families. . .  Wealth and sponsorships . Neymar has signed many sponsorship deals since his reputation rapidly grew from the age of 17. In March 211, he signed an 11year contract with American sportswear company Nike. In the same month, Panasonic paid US2.4 million to secure Neymars services for two years. Prior to signing for Barcelona, France Football had ranked Neymar 13th in its list of the worlds richest players in 212, with total earnings of 18.8 million for the previous 12 months. He has signed other sponsorships from Volkswagen, Tenys Pe Baruel, Lupo, Ambev, Claro, Unilever and Santander. All of his sponsorships have earned him a total of an estimated 2 million per year. On 8 May 213, Neymar was rated by SportsPro magazine as the most marketable athlete in the world, ahead of Lionel Messi 2nd and Cristiano Ronaldo 8th. In November 212 advertising agency Loducca, created Neymars own personal brand logo, featuring the N, J and R Neymar Junior with the N styled to match Neymars shirt number 11. Neymar starred in a 214 advert for Beats with other global football stars including Thierry Henry and Luis Suarez, with the theme of The Game Before The Game and the players pregame ritual of listening to music. . .  Media . . Neymar was featured on the front covers of the video games Pro Evolution Soccer 212 and Pro Evolution Soccer 213 on the North American version, after Konami Digital Entertainment announced that he had joined Pro Evolution Soccer. Neymar joined Cristiano Ronaldo as a featured cover athlete. Neymar appeared on the cover of Time magazine in February 213, the first Brazilian athlete to be so honoured. The issue included an article by Bobby Ghosh entitled The Next Pele and subtitled How the career of Brazilian football star Neymar explains his countrys economy. Controversy erupted because of a cover by Brazilian football magazine Placar that depicted Neymar on a cross. The title read A Crucificacao de Neymar the Crucifixion of Neymar and subtitled: the Brazilian ace turns scapegoat in a sport where everyone plays dirty. In April 213, Brazilian cartoonist Mauricio de Sousa released a Monicas Gang comic book featuring a younger version of Neymar called Neymar Jr as the main character. In May 213, SportsPro magazine named Neymar as the most marketable athlete on the planet for the second consecutive year. He topped the list ahead of Lionel Messi, Rory McIlroy, Usain Bolt and Cristiano Ronaldo, among other sportspeople. The list measures the monetary value, the age, the force in domestic markets, the charisma and their market potential in the next three years. In March 215, Neymar had the fourth highest social media rank in the world among sportspeople, behind Cristiano Ronaldo, Lionel Messi and David Beckham, with 52 million Facebook fans. In ESPNs list of active sportspeople in 216, Neymar was ranked the fourth most famous athlete in the world. To mark the World Cup commencing in Brazil, in June 214, Neymar appeared with supermodel Gisele Bundchen on the front cover of Vogues Brazilian edition. In November 214, Neymar appeared in FIFAs 11 against Ebola campaign with a selection of top football players from around the world, including Cristiano Ronaldo, Gareth Bale, Xavi and Didier Drogba. Under the slogan Together, we can beat Ebola, FIFAs campaign was done in conjunction with the Confederation of African Football and health experts, with the players holding up eleven messages to raise awareness of the disease and ways to combat it. In June 216, actor Vin Diesel confirmed that Neymar would be a part of the action film xXx: Return of Xander Cage, appearing as himself. He appeared in the films first trailer, released on 2 July 216. In April 217, Neymar was included in the Time 1, Time magazines list of the most influential people in the world. . .  Music . Neymar has become an icon in promoting Brazilian modern pop music, particularly Musica sertaneja. The video in which Neymar dances in the Santos locker room dancing in front of teammates carrying his recorder making the round of the players and making them react to the tune of Michel Telos hit Ai se eu te pego went viral. He made a point of performing his dance antics to the song after scoring goals in football games and appeared live with Telo in one of the latters concerts. He also supported sertanejo singer Gusttavo Lima performing live with Lima on renditions of the singers hits Balada and Fazer Beber. In 212, he made cameo appearances in the music video for yet another sertanejo hit Eu Quero Tchu, Eu Quero Tcha by Joao Lucas  Marcelo. In 213, Neymar appeared on a rap music video, Pais do Futebol by MC Guime. . .  Career statistics . . .  Club . As of 26 November 217. Notes. . .  International . . As of 14 November 217. Notes. . .  Honours . . .  Club . Santos. Campeonato Paulista: 21, 211, 212. Copa do Brasil: 21. Copa Libertadores: 211. Recopa Sudamericana: 212. Barcelona. La Liga: 21415, 21516. Copa del Rey: 21415, 21516, 21617. Supercopa de Espana: 213. UEFA Champions League: 21415. FIFA Club World Cup: 215. . .  International . Brazil. South American Youth Championship: 211. FIFA Confederations Cup: 213. Olympic Gold Medal: 216. . .  Individual . Awards. . Campeonato Brasileiro Serie A Team of the Year: 21, 211, 212. Chuteira de Ouro: 21, 211, 212. Bola de Prata: 21, 211. Bola de Ouro: 211. Campeonato Brasileiro Serie A Best Player: 211. World Soccer Young Player of the Year: 211. Copa Libertadores Most Valuable Player: 211. FIFA Club World Cup Bronze Ball: 211. South American Footballer of the Year: 211, 212. FIFA Puskas Award: 211. Bola de Ouro Hors Concours: 212. FIFA Confederations Cup Golden Ball: 213. FIFA Confederations Cup Bronze Shoe: 213. FIFA Confederations Cup Dream Team: 213. FIFA World Cup Bronze Boot: 214. FIFA World Cup Dream Team: 214. Samba dOr: 214, 215. UEFA Champions League Squad of the Season: 21415. La Liga Best World Player: 21415. UEFA Team of the Year: 215. FIFA FIFPro World XI: 215, 217. FIFPro World XI 2nd team: 213, 214, 216. Performances. Copa do Brasil top scorer: 21. South American Youth Championship top scorer: 211. Campeonato Paulista top scorer: 212. Copa Libertadores top scorer: 212 tied with Matias Alustiza. Copa Libertadores top assist provider: 212. Copa del Rey top scorer: 21415. UEFA Champions League top scorer: 21415 tied with Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi. FIFA Club World Cup top assist provider: 215. UEFA Champions League top assist provider: 21617. . .  Notes . . .  References . . .  External links . Official website in Portuguese. Neymar profile at the Paris SaintGermain F.C. website. Neymar at BDFutbol. Neymar at Soccerbase . Neymar at Soccerway. Neymar at NationalFootballTeams.com. Neymar  FIFA competition record. Neymar  UEFA competition record. Neymar  French league stats at LFP. Neymar at ESPN FC